EHR and EMR software development Get a free consultation What we offer EHR and EMR development DICEUS is a specialized, in-depth experienced EHR software development company that has a staff of seasoned professionals willing and ready to build a custom data management system for your hospital, clinic, or healthcare establishment. And all this in terms of professional full-cycle software development based on preliminary research, requirements gathering, software design, development, testing, and deployment, as well as further updates, support, and optimization to keep your offer all-around demanded and valuable. EHR and EMR integration We can also help you integrate readymade pieces of software with bigger systems, integrate updating solutions with legacy systems, and do all sorts of other software assembling initiatives on request. Our specialists know firsthand all the specifics of compatibility between most existing platforms and tools. They can point you in the most performance-boosting, budget-optimizing direction when it comes to integrating third-party solutions with main EHR and EMR systems and platforms. EHR and EMR software support EHR/EMR solutions are sensible software structures that require thorough support and immediate reactions to potential real-time performance issues to avoid expensive downtime, spikes in service quality, and, most importantly, patient data loss possibilities that may lead to long-term legal affairs of different complexity. This is exactly why you should turn to well-tried-and-tested EMR software development professionals with an extensive portfolio, proper certificates, and experience in implementing solutions of such a responsible format. IT consulting and audit Suppose you already have a dedicated team of software development professionals for the EHR project implementation. In that case, we can help you set up the smoothest project workflow and achieve the highest post-launch results by guiding your specialists through all the ins and outs of creating solutions in this field. There are tons of specifics and important nuances in the niche of medical software development. But we have tons of expertise and experience to share with you in the form of comprehensive pro tips, audit sessions, and consultations. emr and ehr software development company 1 Pinch and spread for zoom emr and ehr software development company 2 Pinch and spread for zoom Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Benefits of our EHR and EMR software development services Industry knowledge and expertise With 10+ years of practical experience in creating, setting up, optimizing, and supporting software systems of all shapes and sizes, we have extensive industry knowledge under our belt. This allows us to grant the highest-quality EHR development in terms of well-thought-out collaboration, workflow transparency, and smooth milestones and deadlines compliance. Understanding your challenges At DICEUS, we have our well-formed project workflow formulation philosophies, but we firmly believe in an individualized approach to every other project. This is why we emphasize transparent collaboration with constant communication, client’s active involvement in milestones completion, thorough preliminary research, and other initiatives that help us pinpoint the main areas of interest for your business, in your line of work, concerning your unique product. 10-year experience We are proud of having an extensive pool of seasoned designers, developers, testers, and other specialists providing reliable services throughout years of operation in the industry. Our savvy professionals with outstanding expertise make up our main selling point – we are your provider of choice when it comes to employing the expertise of passionate experts in the niche of EHR software development and optimization based on the specifics of your business. Advanced technologies and skills Whatever your budget limits are, we are sure we can figure out something to fit your expense range without sacrificing the end quality of the product. For this, we offer flexible pricing models and efficient collaboration where we can negotiate and discuss any details of our communication plan, interaction formats, project specifics, and the overall collaboration approach. Our EHR and EMR software development process Discovery To lay a sturdy foundation for the whole future project and guarantee high-quality results, full compliance with your requirements, and satisfaction of all project needs, we kick off the workflow with a discovery phase. It starts with thorough preliminary research where we meet, get your vision of the project, gather and discuss requirements, negotiate the collaboration format, and settle and approve all other important specifics. Engineering The most complex, effort-intensive, and responsible phase of the project is kicked off right after all preparations are handled and approved. This is where we assemble the basic design architecture of the future product, fill it up with some “functionality meat” by hardcoding certain elements from scratch and/or integrating readymade assets with a software architecture frame. The result of this stage – is a working EHR solution. Testing Before the final launch stage, the working software must be thoroughly tested and polished up to avoid all the small and big issues that may hinder traffic attraction and undermine the level of service quality by turning off users with downtime, software conflicts, and whatnot. At this stage, we combine a number of manual and automated testing approaches to fully prepare your product for smooth performance in the field. Deployment We don’t drop your project right after the full completion and testing optimization of EHR software. We know firsthand how important it is to smoothly introduce a new product to the demanding market audience – the first impression you make brings you the first wave of traffic, which should be “heated up” with a high-quality offer immediately. For this, we help you most properly deploy the finished solution in the required operational environment. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request What impacts your project duration We focus on achieving the shortest terms of project completion with every client. But the ultimate duration differs from project to project based on a number of deciding factors. However, we can outline the main points that impact it and can help accelerate the process. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs The final price range of the project is a very individual thing. Only an approximate budget can be calculated at the start based on the scope and complexity of tasks, tech stack, and other underlying specifics. Here’s what affects the final cost primarily. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side DICEUS is a specialized EHR development company that guarantees smooth, high-quality services and reliable expertise. However, there are things that you as a client can provide to help us achieve the best results possible. These include the following. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our tech stack Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Frequently asked questions What technologies are used for EHR and EMR development? EHR and EMR development is carried out with the help of a range of common and field-specific technologies and tools. These may include popular programming languages like C++, HTML, JavaScript, Python, PHP, etc. Mobile and web frameworks (Android and iOS, .NET/AS.NET, and others) are also used when there is a need to create a mobile- or web-based software asset. How long does it take to develop an EHR or EMR solution? The duration of every other project is a very individual thing that is calculated based on a range of underlying factors. One thing for sure – EHR and EMR development may take longer than your standard eCommerce landing or mobile app creation due to the complex industry specifics and high responsibility rates. It shouldn’t take dramatically long, however, if you are working with a reliable EMR development company that has what it takes. Contact us now to calculate the approximate completion terms of your project. Can you suggest what features should our EHR solution have? We have a full staff of seasoned specialists in consultation and implementation of EHR solutions to help you outline the most relevant and efficient features in terms of your individual EHR product. We will help you set up a sturdy file registry database, set up centralized access to convenient dashboards, establish handy communication between workers and departments through chats and live calls, visualize important metrics, and more. Similar industry Medical device software Telemedicine app development Telemedicine software Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman