IT staff augmentation services to scale up your development Send your request Our IT staff augmentation services IT staff augmentation is the ultimate way to develop large-scale projects of high importance by outsourcing the talent and technology a company may lack in-house. In an environment as competitive as the IT software market where projects are complex and long-running, turning to software staff augmentation may be the most efficient way of filling the gaps and polishing your project without going too far. IT staff augmentation services | DICEUS Pinch and spread for zoom Quick hiring Our IT staff augmentation company can find the most relevant developers, test engineers, PMs, and other IT staff for your project within three weeks on average. DICEUS’s recruitment process adjusted through many years of field practice makes things simple and fast. Contact us, tell us your IT staffing needs, and get a specialist or specialists integrated with your running workflow. Predictable budget Pay for what you see – why collaborate the other way around? Going for IT staff augmentation, you get to hire a particular specialist with the required skills and knowledge to handle a particular patch of the project within certain terms. We’ve got a transparent rate card for you to understand how much it will cost you to hire a Junior Engineer or a Tech Lead. Extensive expertise Hire top industry specialists with a skill set that fits your particular project requirements – our team will help you find the most relevant candidates. Our recruiting pipeline consists of many IT experts specialized in different programming languages, frameworks, and platforms. By the way, these people have experience developing RPA, AI, ML, blockchain, and other advanced solutions for insurtech, banking, fintech, healthcare, retail, logistics, etc. Seniority level matrix We use a specifically developed seniority level matrix to help our clients pick which specialists to hire based on a structural hierarchy of professionals’ qualifications. Using this matrix, you can hire the right team members, picking from multiple seniority levels, considering the tasks and responsibilities to be handled in the course of your project and the budget. Project management For any IT staff hired with our help, we highly recommend hiring at least one Project Manager from our side. He or she ensures that developers understand clearly all the project requirements and goals to be reached. Usually, we handle project management, tracking and logging all recruitment agreement details, settling payments, providing detailed reports and billing, monitoring the progress. Employee retention There is practically no employee turnover among outsourced IT specialists because only top-performing experts confident in their skills and seasoned in their line of work make up the pool of augmentation talents. In practice, this means that you don’t have to worry about one employee or another deciding to drop the project – you just hire a specialist or a team, settle all the workflow format details, and get your purchased share of services. Need some extra project capacities and professional skills to complete an important software product but don’t want to risk going through freelancers? IT staff augmentation is a perfect solution that gives you integral team integration and cost-saving, transparent opportunities. At DICEUS, we work with an extensive pool of IT staff augmentation talents and dedicated teams capable of handling any project – be it a light offshore Android development project or a more in-depth development process with a niche-specific tech stack. Send your request IT staff augmentation company | Benefits Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of software development staff augmentation services Software development staff augmentation is a convenient collaboration model that can help you access the top market talents pool, save budget, scale faster, and avoid any disadvantages of plain outsourcing – all while controlling the whole development process. We offer IT staff or dedicated teams according to your individual requirements, business/project specifics, and other details, delivering the following benefits as a result. Large talent pool DICEUS is an IT staff augmentation company that gives you access to the widest pool of IT professionals of all sorts – you can pick by types of specialization, qualification levels, location, and other work specifics. We also point you in the right direction and give recommendations on which talents it is best to hire in your individual case. Note that hired specialists come with their own hardware and software. Mature hiring process No need to bother with the recruitment process and all the underlying details that need settling. We prepare all the hiring specifics for you so that you could simply pick candidates or use our recommendations, make a deal with our managers, and get a specialist or team to boost your project workflow. We also help newcomers with onboarding that’s why there’s no need to spend your time on that. Organized onboarding The fact that you hire the IT staff to tackle particular tasks or project patches means that the hired specialists are to dive head-to-toe into the work at hand, focusing exclusively on one specific workflow. To reinforce specialists’ project adaptation abilities, we help organize thorough onboarding that immerses staff augmentation candidates into all the underlying specifics and sets the big picture of their responsibilities. High employee retention rate Here at DICEUS, we managed to ensure the highest employee retention. Our software development staff augmentation services are aimed at giving the most meaningful value to our customers. To ensure zero attrition, we conduct regular one-to-one meetings with our employees as well as follow a mood-monitoring technique to check how people feel about their work, teammates, projects. Benefits packages To keep our outsourced talents motivated and boost their productivity, we take care of each and every augmentation specialist with extensive benefits packages. Namely, we cover such employment-related aspects as health insurance, paid sick days, days off, and vacations, education and training programs, work costs reimbursement, qualification-boosting events, and more incentives for comfortable performance. Reasonable rates As an instance, hiring an offshore Android developer costs 3-4 times less than recruiting a full-on in-house employee of the same qualification, for the same purposes. And yet, you get the same level of expertise or even higher, with a proper focus on your particular project. This is yet another cost-saving opportunity that software development staff augmentation grants and there is no reason why you shouldn’t go for it. Our hiring process Our IT staffing company puts a lot of resources and corporate effort into the hiring process organization to make it simple, smooth, and effortless for our clients. For this, we do extensive work on selecting candidates for our pool of augmentation talents (including interviews, trial tasks, and practical preparations), form the pool based on qualifications, specializations, and skills, and settle all other organizational specifics. In the long run, you get fast and reliable IT staff augmentation services backed up by a whole staff augmentation management team. Detailed job description First things first, we need to know what type of specialists you are looking for. For this, we study your job requirements and project brief with our team of augmentation managers. We schedule a call-up and talk things through with the client individually to not miss out on anything and take heed of smaller notes and client desires. If there is no pre-prepared work brief, we formulate one from scratch and use it further on only after the client’s approval. Candidate’s screening Once we’ve got all the requirements finalized and a brief describing the major specifics of future workflow analyzed or composed, we can start researching fitting candidates. For this, a dedicated team of business analysts and recruiters studies the market for available workforce fitting the client’s line of work. We create a huge database of experts concerning the professional criteria and leave only top specialists’ CVs to present to the client. Test assignments After brief approval, we give you a whole list of CVs from candidates whose skills are well-proven in the field. The lists are always neatly organized and segmented by specialization, qualification level, demographics, and other aspects. If the client is having issues picking the fitting specialists on their own, we assist them with recommendations, point out the candidates that will do best at the required position in our experts’ opinion. Passing the test Once the final candidates are selected from a big list of options, the specialists must pass project-specific test assignments. These may be prepared and composed beforehand by the client. If not, we also help create efficient test tasks, creating individual assignments challenging the candidates’ soft and hard skills. All test assignments have respective deadlines and internal requirements, helping to indicate the responsibility level. Feedback on the test Once the test assignment deadline hits, we gather completed tasks and send them to you for inspection. This is where you, as a client, can see particular candidates’ worth in practice and express your thoughts. To help you better analyze the results, our in-house specialists can point out the savviest and most responsible approaches in test tasks, making your final choice easier. Your feedback can help us proceed to search for the right IT professionals. Interview with the candidate Proceeding to the closing stages of software development staff augmentation, you can now interview the talents picked after thorough market analysis, selection of the best candidates, and trial of their theoretical and practical skills. You can interview candidates in an individual order, without much of our involvement (we provide all the contacts right away). Or, our in-house specialists can help you ask the most relevant questions and better figure out a candidate’s savviness. Job offer The last stage of the augmented staff recruitment is mostly on the client – you need to sort out your impressions from interviewed professionals and decide who will be working on your project. We serve as the linking point between you and contractors so the final decision is yours and we send work offers to the picked candidates right after your approval. And if you have any doubts, our team of IT staff augmentation specialists can always consult you on picking the best. Send your request What impacts your project duration No matter the volume of your requirements or scope of work, we guarantee the fastest hiring process. We have been working in the IT staffing field for more than ten years. The major aspects that influence how fast it all happens include the following. Immediate involvement of resources from our bench 1-2 weeks to engage the resources from our recruitment pipeline 4-6 weeks for hiring from the market What affects your project costs IT staff augmentation will help you avoid tons of unnecessary expenses. Our team will offer you the most suitable IT staffing solutions. The only points that impact the underlying costs of your project will include the following. Chosen technology Developer rates Seniority level What we need from your side We have been perfecting the way we provide IT staff augmentation services through the years. But to make things even faster, smoother, and simpler, here’s what we need from you. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available Job descriptions, if available Understanding of hiring and onboarding processes Our achievements Our tech stack Send your request Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Frequently asked questions What is IT staff augmentation? IT staff augmentation is an outsourcing method where you use an intermediary company that helps find and hire specific IT specialists that could fill the gap in your project if you lack certain expertise in-house. IT staff augmentation services are most commonly employed when some extra input is required, e.g., polishing up complex aspects of the project or handling rough patches. What are the key benefits of staff augmentation? The IT staff augmentation approach has been employed throughout the market by numerous companies and entrepreneurs to complete projects painlessly and cost-efficiently. It allows significantly cutting costs while turning to valuable expertise; getting top industry talents to assist you only where you need it; avoid cumbersome recruitment processes and lots of paperwork, and more. How to find professional IT staff overseas? You can simply turn to a specialized IT staff augmentation company or a company that provides an individual service. At DICEUS, for instance, we make your life easier by taking up all the “hard work” of settling recruitment specifics, conducting the hiring process, and even handling account management tasks. You save more with our help than you would if you went to pick candidates single-handedly, avoiding possible risks as well. Similar services SaaS development Dedicated team Offshore software development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman