Iryna Kravchenko Chief Editor Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Fintech · 15 min. read · 1628 reads · 10 Nov 2025 14 Nov 2025 Top 10 fintech software development companies for 2026 Among all modern domains, the finance industry is definitely one of the most tech-savvy. Striving to meet the expectations of IT-driven consumers, banks and financial institutions embrace digital transformation solutions far and wide. Fintech products they onboard encompass a broad range of innovative solutions – from mobile banking apps, wealth management tools, and payment solutions to digital wallets, insurtech software , and investment platforms. Both future-oriented traditional financial organizations and fintech startups can’t hope to survive in the contemporary digitally-powered financial services industry if they fail to harness cutting-edge technologies and turn innovative software solutions into their competitive differentiator. This article is a valuable manual on finding a competent and reliable software development partner in the field of fintech software development services that informs you on the current condition of the fintech industry, recommends criteria for selecting a qualified fintech software development company, offers a roster of the best IT vendors in this niche, and outlines major trends disrupting the realm today. The fintech sector in 2026: Key facts and statistics The ubiquity of mobile gizmos and across-the board penetration of advanced technologies have turned people of the early third millennium into a largely digitalized pool of users. We crave the ultimate customer experience, no matter what service or product we purchase. The same is true of financial operations, which should be quick, secure, permanently available, and user-friendly. Fintech solutions tick all these boxes, so it is no wonder that global consumers leverage them on a large scale. As Exploding Topics show, about half of the world’s population regularly utilizes financial apps (46%), finance management solutions (51%), payment and banking platforms (56%), and other fintech products. In China, these figures are much greater, with 92% of people enjoying digital banking solutions in their daily routine. In total, global customers used innovative digital solutions to make $11.55 trillion payments last year, and this amount will continue to increase. Experts forecast that the fintech market will grow from around $250 billion today to over $644 billion in five years and to $917 billion in 2032, manifesting a solid CAGR of 25.18% along the way. fintech market growth projections Pinch and spread for zoom Such revenue prospects don’t go unnoticed by fintech development companies that offer their products to banks and financial institutions poised for business growth and keeping abreast of emerging technologies. But how should they look for a financial software partner? Selecting financial software development companies: Factors to consider We have delivered dozens of successful projects for organizations in the financial sector, so we know what aspects they pay attention to while making their choice of a custom software development company to partner with. Criteria to choose a fintech development company Pinch and spread for zoom Expertise and experience An ideal financial product development vendor should be present in the IT outsourcing market for at least ten years, delivering software for the financial industry during this time. Relevant qualifications of the workforce should be vindicated by official certificates. Tech stack Finance software development requires skills in certain tools, frameworks, programming languages, libraries, and methodologies, as well as cutting-edge fintech innovation. Make sure your potential partner is proficient in them. Industry impact You can learn about it by looking at the case studies section on the vendor’s site. If the portfolio contains similar projects to the one you have in mind (say, related to financial app development or insurance software development), you should include such fintech companies in your shortlist of candidates. Customer reviews and testimonials These contain the best-proven track record of the high quality of custom solutions the vendor crafts and of the former clients’ satisfaction with how the cooperation process proceeded. Another source of feedback is rating platforms (GoodFirms and Clutch are universally recognized authorities) that will help you complete the picture. Using these criteria as yardsticks, you can embark on a search for competent and experienced fintech software developers. To save you time and effort, we offer a shortcut to the goal, narrowing your choice to the 10 leading vendors in the field of financial technology products. Top fintech software development companies in 2026 DICEUS DICEUS fintech development Pinch and spread for zoom We are an international software development company whose offices are located on three continents across eight countries. It allows us to set up convenient communication schedules with the global clientele where time zone differences present no problems. Throughout 15+ years of our presence in the IT market, we have established ourselves as a top-notch digital transformation company specializing in financial software development. DICEUS’ 250 full-time skilled specialists provide versatile fintech development services, including mobile app development, web app development, legacy system modernization, regulatory compliance, and more. We have an efficient fintech software development life cycle in place that leverages the Agile software development methodology. Its application enables our employees to organize and manage the entire development process, starting from the ideation and discovery phase through UI/UX design and MVP creation down to coding and deployment, implementing robust security measures at each stage. Our software engineering professionals possess top-notch skills both in mainstream technologies and state-of-the-art know-how (cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, Internet of Things, blockchain, and more), empowering them to create secure custom software solutions honed for lending, money transfers, wealth management, payment, investment, and other financial operations. Brainhub Based in Poland, this fintech app development company focuses on mobile and web development, creating wealth management, expense management, payment, and crypto-trading applications. Its strong UX design skillset allows Brainhub to deliver first-rate affordable fintech web and mobile app development services to startups, small businesses, and large corporations alike. 10Clouds The primary concern of this vendor is the uncompromised security of their products. In cooperation with Trust Stamp, a global identity verification leader, 10Clouds develops banking systems and enterprise financial software utilizing ID verification, proof of liveliness, identity lakes, and other groundbreaking techniques that enable safe data sharing and storage. Kellton Tech Solutions Instead of being technology-driven, this vendor positions itself as a solution-focused company catering to a broad range of verticals with fintech as its special area of competence. What it strives for is to build an ideal solution that dovetails with a client’s requirements to a tee. Kellton’s range of services includes outsourced product development, digital integration, platform modernization, R&D, technology consulting, and more. LeewayHertz Innovation is this company’s middle name. It leverages AI, ML, blockchain, IoT, NFT, and other disruptive technologies to revolutionize financial operations and transform fintech players’ pipeline routine. LeewayHeartz’s roster of services comprises end-to-end development of scalable software solutions, deployment, maintenance, consultancy, and addressing IT staffing needs. CheesecakeLabs Clutch rates this Brazil-based vendor as the 5 th -best React Native development company and the 10 th -best mobile app development firm. The latter aspect makes CheesecakeLabs an excellent app development partner that can deliver Android, iOS, cross-platform, and progressive fintech mobile applications with exquisite visual design and integrated voice assistants. Future Processing This winner of Strategic Sourcing Awards has been a Microsoft partner since 2007. It specializes in digital transformation consulting through strategy and discovery workshops, business analysis, and quality audits, but also delivers custom financial software (chiefly banking and loan apps) and modernizes legacy ecosystems for financial organizations. Monterail The vendor excels at building finance management apps and M&A deal platforms hinged on AI-driven technologies. It has been delivering high-end fintech web and mobile apps for over 13 years, during which it has managed to complete almost 400 projects for 230+ global customers. Another achievement Monterail is proud of is its official partnership with Vue.js. Miquido The company develops various financial products (banking and stock exchange apps, trading platforms, digital wallets, investment apps, and more) by integrating advanced technologies such as machine learning, data science, computer vision, NLP, etc. As a result, the solutions they craft contain AI-fueled chatbots and voice assistants that contribute much to the nonpareil customer experience their users receive. Experion-technologies With offices across nine countries in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Oceania and a 1000-strong staff of software engineers, designers, and analysts, the company is empowered to develop high-quality custom software solutions not only for finance but also for retail, transportation, and supply chain verticals. It has cooperated with numerous startups and large enterprises, contributing to their digital transformation initiatives. A fintech development company can satisfy customer expectations only by keeping its hand on the pulse of current trends in the sector. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Contemporary trends in fintech software development There are some emerging trends in the fintech realm that are gaining considerable traction today and are likely to define the industry tomorrow and beyond. trends fintech development Pinch and spread for zoom ArtificiaI intelligence AI-powered technologies (machine learning, natural language processing, computer vision, large language models, generative AI, and others) are all the rage in the finance industry nowadays, accounting for a $18.31 billion-strong market . By 2030, it is expected to increase almost three times at a spectacular CAGR of 23.82%. AI’s primary use cases are related to streamlining and facilitating financial workflows (proactive risk management, fraud detection, data collecting and processing, pipeline automation, insight generation, you name it). The technology radically upgrades client-facing routines as well, where AI-driven chatbots, virtual assistants, and robo-advisers handle people’s queries, recommend investment opportunities, offer services or products, and more, elevating customer service to a new, more personalized level. Embedded finance It effectively bridges the gap between financial and other industries by seamlessly integrating fintech products into non-financial platforms and enabling access to financial services without a dedicated banking or fintech app. Typically, such functionalities are built into messengers, social networks, and other platforms, making it a breeze for entrepreneurs to receive a credit in a few clicks, whereas consumers can use the system to pay for online purchases. The sophistication of this one-stop-shop concept ushered in the idea of a fintech super app that caters to all financial needs of users, allowing them to enjoy a wide range of financial services and perform multiple transactions from a single application. Their convenience, user-friendliness, and low entry barrier (in comparison to other fintech software) condition the spike in the popularity of embedded finance solutions, the market for which is expected to reach $7.2 trillion within five years. Open banking It boils down to leveraging a network of APIs through which banks and financial institutions enable their customers’ access to third-party services. Such a system creates a win-win situation both for financial organizations and their clientele. On the one hand, a broad gamut of financial services (for instance, data analytics, lending, payment by installments, expense tracking, and more) become available to customers whose banks don’t offer such capabilities. On the other hand, finance firms cooperate with various organizations (insurance companies, healthcare providers, retailers, etc.), thus expanding their client base. The latter statement is well-grounded since the global number of open banking users crossed the 132 million threshold last year. Neobanks Every indication suggests that the age of traditional banks is rapidly drawing to a close. Old-school brick-and-mortar financial organizations, with their excessive red tape and sluggish workflows, are increasingly eclipsed by neobanks (aka digital banks). They don’t have any presence in the physical world but offer multiple online fintech services to people who just need a computer or a smartphone with an internet connection to access them. Such a system is extremely beneficial for clients who can cover their financial needs in a few clicks, enjoying automated, instant, round-the-clock, and much cheaper banking services. Their low cost is explained by the fact that neobanks don’t have to pay for renting premises, equipping workplaces, and hiring extensive personnel. Moreover, digital-only banks face fewer kick-off requirements, which spells less initial investment to launch a neobank. Recognizing the undisputable convenience of neobanks, people leverage them more and more, which provides the digital banks’ mind-blowing net interest rate of $1.61 trillion this year and prospects to see it grow to $2.09 trillion by 2029. Virtual cards This is an extension of the digital-only approach gathering momentum in the fintech industry. Credit and debit cards also disappear as tangible items and come to dwell exclusively in people’s gadgets. Having such a card, they can stop worrying about losing or damaging it. Moreover, virtual cards are more fraud-proof since their usage must be authorized via the personal banking app. To make their security even stronger, some banks launch disposable virtual cards capable of changing their details after each transaction. Biometric authentication Two-factor authentication is widely used by financial organizations to protect the safety of people’s finances and personal data. However reliable they may seem, one-time passwords and codes sent to the customer’s email or phone become insufficient, given the scale of cybercrime today. The second line of defense is provided by biometric authentication when a fintech solution allows operations with the bank account or digital wallet only after processing the user’s fingerprints, retina scans, palm geometry screens, face photos, or voice samples. The latest method in this set includes keystroke dynamics tracking as an identity verification technique. A combination of several biometric authentication procedures eliminates any possibility of unauthorized access to a person’s money. Buy now, pay later (BNPL) This is a short-term financing initiative, enabling consumers to enjoy a product or service at once but extend payment for it in installments over some period of time after an initial payment has been made via a point of sale. Such a flexible system with an easy approval process and no interest is very attractive for people who don’t have the entire sum at the moment to purchase a product and whose credit card limit is too low to cover it (or has been maxed out). BNLP benefits businesses as well because it allows them to boost sales and foster customer loyalty in the long run. The universally recognized advantages of BNLP payments account for the ever-increasing $500-billion market size and 360 million users of this service. Decentralized finance (De-Fi) The rapid spread of blockchain, cryptocurrencies, and smart contracts gave rise to the idea of decentralized finance. Relying on distributed ledger technology, individuals and organizations can forget about banks and brokers working as mediators and enjoy secure, fast, cost-efficient, and unrestricted by any authority financial operations (such as transaction registration, conduct verification, contract signing, data protection, and more). De-Fi’s conventional use cases include payments, lending, money transfers, and trading, to mention a few. Regtech Keeping track of numerous regulations related to its activities and data handling operations is a tall order for any financial organization. And since the number of such laws and standards is only bound to increase, their shop floor routines are at risk of being significantly slowed down or even halted. Regtech solutions are geared toward addressing this challenge by automatically tracking regulatory compliance and adherence to anti-money laundering (AML) and know-your-customer (KYC) guidelines. They process tons of customer data, check its accuracy, monitor transaction legality, forestall risks, and identify fraudulent practices. Besides, regtech tools help generate compliance reports and streamline contacts with regulatory bodies. Voice assistants AI-driven voice assistants are honed not only to give advice or consult you on finance-related matters. They can obey a user’s commands and check their balance, buy things, pay bills, book reservations, and more. Such helpers save a customer’s time and guarantee the accessibility of financial services to people with eyesight or hand motion disabilities. While doing their job, they follow orders only from the gadget owner being protected by voice recognition biometrics. The voice assistant market is on a steep spike today, with the number of units ( 8.4 billion ) exceeding the planet’s total population. Contactless payments Across-the-board EVP chip card adoption and increasing acceptance of NFC devices account for a global surge in contactless payments. People are encouraged to utilize their smartphones, watches, wristbands, rings, and other wearables while paying for products and services via NFC terminals installed at retail outlets, mass transit vehicles, healthcare centers, hospitality facilities, etc. Gamification This is a powerful customer satisfaction booster employed by businesses across various verticals, so there is no reason why the finance domain should shy away from it. Modern fintech products offer users different awards, bonuses, cashback, badges, in-app coins, referral programs, and other engagement and remuneration techniques. Embracing gamification allows financial organizations to enhance customer retention and increase their loyalty, encouraging clients to become brand advocates and promoters. Related article: Mobile banking trends Key takeaways The contemporary financial services market displays robust growing dynamics largely due to the advent of fintech products. Banks and financial institutions launch dozens of payment apps, digital wallets, lending platforms, investment tools, and other software that streamline and facilitate financial operations for individuals and businesses. The development of fintech products is a no-joke endeavor that can be implemented only by skilled IT professionals. Finding a competent fintech software development company requires meticulous analysis of candidates’ expertise level, experience in the niche, technical arsenal they utilize, industry impact, and business reputation confirmed by the proven track record and ex-customers’ reviews. If you want your fintech product to hit it big, you should develop it in alignment with the current trends in the sector related to the spread of AI technologies, decentralized and embedded finance, open banking and neobanks, BNLP systems, virtual cards, contactless payments, voice assistants, biometric authentication, and other innovations that push the industry’s envelope. Frequently asked questions How do I choose the best fintech software development company for my business? To find a competent and reliable developer for your future fintech solution, you should consider such criteria as the potential candidate’s expertise and experience in the finance sector, the tech stack its software engineers wield, similar projects they have completed, and former customer feedback on the process and outcomes of their cooperation. What emerging trends are shaping fintech software development in 2026? The fintech industry today manifests a surge in utilizing AI-driven technologies, embedded and decentralized finance, open and digital banking, virtual cards, contactless payments, the buy now, pay later system, biometric authentication techniques, voice assistants, regtech solutions, and various gamification methods. How important is security and compliance in fintech software development? Financial organizations operate within a stringent legal framework that stipulates the procedure of handling customer data, providing security of their funds, and adhering to anti-money laundering and know-your-customer rules. Regtech solutions can help financial players comply with numerous regulations in those fields, avoiding hefty fines and other penalties non-compliance incurs. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents The fintech sector in 2026: Key facts and statistics Selecting financial software development companies: Factors to consider Top fintech software development companies in 2026 Contemporary trends in fintech software development Key takeaways Frequently asked questions Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles AI 16 min. read · 14 Nov 2025 14 Nov 2025 Top 10 generative AI companies for 2026: A big overview Fintech 20 min. read · 09 Jun 2026 24 Sep 2026 How to build a fintech app in 2026: Types, stages, and requirements Fintech 13 min. read · 28 Oct 2024 29 Dec 2025 Artificial intelligence in fintech: Top advantages and use cases Retail 18 min. read · 01 Oct 2025 04 Sep 2026 List of the top SCM software to use in 2025-2026 AI 11 min. read · 21 Aug 2025 21 Aug 2025 Best custom AI development companies in 2025-2026 14 min. read · 10 Nov 2025 10 Nov 2025 The best SaaS development companies in 2026 All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman