Artificial intelligence banking software development DICEUS specialized in banking software development, including DWH development, system integration, data migration, and AI consulting. Book a call Send request In the highly competitive landscape of the contemporary banking and financial industries, banking institutions can hope to obtain an edge over their rivals in the niche only by revolutionizing their workflows, improving the quality of services they provide, and ensuring the ultimate customer experience for their clientele. Since regular software solutions and internal systems leveraged in the banking sector can’t guarantee such boons, a decisive breakthrough can be achieved only by adopting AI technologies to boost operational efficiency. AI banking software development deals with creating and implementing AI-based systems that banking and finance organizations utilize to facilitate and streamline processes in their pipeline. This ultimately allows them to augment customer satisfaction and exploit untapped sales opportunities. High-profile experts of DICEUS will craft the best-in-class AI systems and banking apps that will elevate the online banking services of financial institutions to a new level. What we offer When it comes to AI for fintech, many clients don’t fully realize how powerful this technology can be. Let’s dive deeper and examine how AI can empower your business. The following offerings are well-tested and time-proven; our clients have already selected them and received their benefits. First and foremost, what is artificial intelligence in banking? AI includes systems that mimic human behavior and can self-learn and correct actions by analyzing information. In the banking industry, AI optimizes internal and external operations and strengthens workflows. We offer a few core AI services for fintech, including developing enterprise performance management, production planning analytics, workforce analytics, CRM analytics, supply chain analytics, advanced predictive analytics tools, and AI software platforms. AI for banking is among the hottest trends right now. Modern digital financial teams utilize AI-based tools to provide better services, attract more clients, and increase revenue. They help optimize data aggregation and usage, mitigate regulatory and market risks, improve customer experience, and combat many banking problems, including fraud. Advanced analytics Our AI-powered solutions and services are provided to equip your company with predictive analytics tools complemented by machine learning. For instance, you can use it to build an innovative customer relationships system (CRM) powered with forecasting capabilities to identify market demands with the help of historical data. Our AI team will help you define how AI can be helpful in your bank. AI cloud services AI and ML-powered software work best when combined with the cloud. Harnessing the force of the cloud, you can extend your artificial intelligence efforts and develop banking products and services faster and more effectively. Our AI team of analysts and developers will build the right strategy for adopting and implementing AI with the cloud for your banking organization. Image recognition Image recognition and optical character recognition (OCR) solutions can help your bank to get and analyze digital visual materials faster. AI-based technologies provide the most effective image recognition tools to convert visual data into symbols. Computer vision software can significantly simplify bank staff work and ensure that data analysis results will be more reliable. Natural language processing (NLP) We offer natural language processing solutions like chatbots for banks to help you increase customer satisfaction and loyalty by providing modern customer support. Our AI team has experience building custom-tailored chatbot applications for banks and financial organizations. We conduct in-depth target audience analysis to identify your most common communicational patterns and contexts. AI 1 Pinch and spread for zoom AI infografic Pinch and spread for zoom Need professional consulting on your project? Send request Application of AI-powered solutions in the banking industry AI banking solutions find numerous use cases across multiple shop floor activities in the domain. Process automation Banking services rely on dozens of routine procedures that require much time and effort if handled manually. In the realm of process automation, artificial intelligence reigns supreme. AI tools can be employed on a large scale to automate repetitive tasks, streamline the KYC pipeline, and facilitate banking transactions. Fraud detection and prevention Real-time AI-driven fraud detection capability allows banks to forestall dubious financial transactions in two ways. First of all, biometric fraud detection systems strengthen system access control and avert possible financial crimes in advance. Second of all, AI tools analyze customer usage patterns (navigation habits, typing speed, device interaction, customer references, and more) to identify anomalies and alert personnel responsible for combatting fraud. Risk management AI-fueled mechanisms process customer data in large quantities, analyze their credit history, transaction data, and other metrics to calculate credit scores and determine repayment ability, which condition loan and credit granting decisions. Apart from credit scoring, banks employ the power of artificial intelligence to pinpoint market trends and fluctuations, thus helping human analysts forecast potential threats and suggest proactive steps to mitigate them. Cybersecurity The banking sector is perhaps the most targeted industry for cybercriminals. Using AI in banking can strengthen the protection perimeter of an organization’s infrastructure against determined cyber attacks or leakages through negligence and provide rock-solid customer and operational data security. Advanced data analytics Thanks to AI’s data retrieval and processing capabilities, such software creates high-quality data banks where multiple data points are stored and analyzed very quickly, providing both managerial staff and rank-and-file employees with valuable real-time insights to be further leveraged in knowledgeable decision-making. Regulatory compliance In terms of regulatory compliance, banking is an intensely controlled domain, with organizations having to adhere to GDPR, CCPA, and other legal norms. Given their sheer number, compliance analysts often struggle to keep abreast of multiple relevant laws, and AI can be a good crutch in this ordeal. AI-driven tools can monitor compliance demands and their changes to help banks avoid fines and penalties. Portfolio management AI-powered digital payment advisors and virtual assistants provide algorithm-driven recommendations and goal-planning that can dramatically improve investment strategies and wealth management. Moreover, they offer personalized advice that is instrumental in creating and monitoring individual portfolios that are adjusted and fine-tuned in accordance with market dynamics and investor preferences. Customer support Today, efficient customer support can hardly be imagined without AI-powered chatbots that increasingly replace customer service representatives. Based on natural language processing models, they can maintain near-human communication with the clientele, and their machine learning capabilities enable them to learn from past interactions, improve their accuracy, and provide relevant responses to customer queries. Benefits of our AI banking solutions Artificial intelligence in financial services has nearly unlimited potential. From computer vision to automatic customer support, these features are compelling. Thanks to our banking AI solutions, you can explore the most valuable benefits available. Don’t forget that we’re focusing on your success, so you can provide any custom requirements to get the best software. In general, the use of corporate AI technologies can significantly increase labor productivity and improve the customer experience. We help you correctly design banking AI solutions, select existing cloud services, or develop your custom models, implement them, and launch solutions. Improved customer service Artificial intelligence solutions allow multiple customer calls to be handled at a time. With AI-powered customer service solutions like chatbots, clients don’t have to wait hours to get answers to their inquiries. Optimized processes By implementing image recognition, chatbots, speech recognition, and other AI-based software solutions, you can drastically change your operational processes and make them more effective and efficient. Reduced costs Innovate and optimize your costs — automation of business operations and improved customer service minimize the need for resources and reduces costs for manual jobs, redundant tasks, and unnecessary activities. Increased efficiency With advanced analytics and automated operations, you can increase employee productivity and business efficiency significantly. Our AI experts will be happy to help you harmonize your business processes. Our banking AI development process AI infografic Pinch and spread for zoom AI in banking sector requires a thorough analysis, design, and development approach. That’s why we leverage our standard-driven SDLC for different services, including digital assistance for employees, development of natural language processing tools or other systems. The whole process consists of several major phases. Business analysis Any artificial intelligence in a banking case study starts with requirements. The most necessary questions to ask are “What are you going to solve?” and “What is the desired outcome?”. These questions are extremely essential because they help realize which type of AI services is the best for you. For example, you may want to improve intelligent information processing, so you’ll need tailored reinforcement learning or predictive analytics. Our business analysts will collect both functional and non-functional requirements. Systems integration Whether you use cloud-based AI in banking sector or develop a custom solution, both approaches require data preparation. It’s an iterative process that consists of the following steps: get data; cleanse and prepare data; train the model; test data; improve the model. Most often, business data is located in different systems. That’s why we need to configure integration services to collect data. The most critical part of the AI tool kits is cleansing the data. Our data scientists will clean, move, check, and structure data before using or writing an algorithm. Algorithm implementation AI services are different from other IT areas. The thing is that any artificial intelligence in banking case study requires different options. The selection of certain AI services like computer vision depends on specific tasks and the data used. Thus, the costs and quality of these services may be extremely different as they also depend on your needs. Our data scientists will offer the most relevant services that suit your tasks. If there are no appropriate ready-made cloud options, we can create a custom algorithm for AI in banking sector. What impacts your project duration For each project, the exact schedule will be different. Overall, the duration depends on the next core factors: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Availability and quality of data for analysis What affects your project costs With the costs, the situation is highly similar to the duration. It’s impossible to predict exact spending before checking the project requirements. Core factors that affect costs are as follows: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team Quantity and quality of initial data What we need from your side To ensure the best results of our AI solutions for banking, we encourage clients to cooperate with developers. To test our services and solutions, we need sufficient data quantity and quality provided from your side. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, a test strategy or test cases Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Frequently asked questions What is artificial intelligence in banking so important? AI in financial services is a set of practices and digital solutions that facilitate operations. In other words, it’s a way in which a bank can implement AI techniques to optimize financial processes. For instance, AI can automate customer support or enhance data processing. How do banks win with AI and automated machine learning? Smart solutions and automation are among the hot trends nowadays. AI solutions for banking cut time and money expenses significantly, increase employee productivity, and improve customer service quality. It’s possible thanks to advanced digital operations. Why choose us as an AI development company for banking? We have rich experience in working with banks and providing innovative services. Our case studies include projects for American, European, and Middle East businesses, implementation of automation technologies, and advanced custom solutions. Similar industry Online banking Mobile banking Core banking systems Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman