Custom software development services DICEUS is a custom software development company that has accomplished over 150 projects since 2011. We build bespoke solutions according to your business goals and specific requirements, helping you to shape the product’s vision and make it as effective as possible. Discuss project Estimate project Planning to develop a next-gen SaaS product or build an ERP system for your enterprise? Or do you have a mobile app that doesn’t perform as efficiently as expected? Examine DICEUS services, and we’ll happily support you in overcoming any IT-related tasks that arise. It is common to think that custom software development services are the creation of IT solutions — from scratch, conforming with specifications, particular needs and objectives, with a certain set of functionalities inherent to a certain industry. However, these include not only infrastructure and architecture, design, coding, and testing; these do not only refer to newly developed products. Custom development services are also provided for enterprises that want to customize or refresh current systems, incorporate new technologies in the current IT landscape, modernize a legacy system, migrate to the cloud, and more. For example, an insurance company wants to upgrade its mobile application to increase customer engagement, reduce the load on its call center, and become more competitive. Below, you will find a list of custom software product development services we offer. Note that they are not limited to the list — you can find more in the left-hand menu. Anyway, feel free to get in touch with us for your unique requests. Architecture design Functionalities are probably the first things we discuss during our first meetings with clients. We ask what services you’d like your system to provide and why you need those. Surely, that’s important. So is the architecture — we always consider the infrastructure within which the features will be realized to meet your objectives and align with your workflows. Depending on the goals of the project, we can involve solution architects, system architects, and software architects who can explore your requirements and offer the respective solution during the discovery phase. UI and CX/UX design Realizing the importance of omnichannel CX/UX trends, our specialists discover your targeted or existing customers’/users’ pain points, challenges, and frustrations. UX/UI researchers speak with people to identify what they like and dislike about your services and applications, create customer personas, and provide their recommendations on improvements. You get detailed reports on user interviews, descriptions of user personas, and detailed user journey maps. Ultimately, you see how well your operations are aligned with user journeys. Custom software engineering Coding should be done to see how infrastructure, architecture, and design work in confluence. Our engineers develop any type of custom software solutions: cross-platform, native, enterprise, desktop, mobile, web, and many more. We also deliver data warehouses, cloud migration services, and advanced technology implementations like robotic process automation, artificial intelligence, IoT, and many more. System integration services Along with custom-designed software systems and digital solutions, we provide excellent integration services. We do integrations of various APIs, features, and modules even to legacy infrastructures. Our experts will create an integration roadmap with the right metrics, platforms, and tools, considering all important security and data integrity measures. Manual and automated testing Quality is what makes our products work smoothly. To ensure the highest quality, our QAs do all types of manual and automated tests. Before a project begins, test engineers define their strategy and present it to a client. Within the execution, they do all necessary tests, write use and test cases, and send reports to all project stakeholders. A well-organized testing approach allows us to get products with high performance, excellent usability, and superb security. Legacy app modernization Some clients ask us for help with their legacy systems. It refers to banks, insurance companies, and financial organizations especially. These businesses suffer from lagging behind their competitors who managed to update their systems with edge-cutting technologies. We have dedicated teams who know how to work with such issues appropriately, as modernizing systems requires special knowledge in data migration. Can’t find the service you are looking for? Explore all services Want to discuss your project? Contact us More custom software development services Legacy app modernization Mobile app development Web app development Data migration Enterprise software development Custom API development Benefits of custom software Getting tailored software development services is all about ensuring your business with a unique solution built by professional IT specialists. Such a product differs from the out-of-the-box one by its customization character. If you’ve got such, you stand out from the crowd. Engineers can build whatever you need, from a simple mobile app to a complex AI-powered data analysis system for enterprises. Moreover, bespoke solutions can have as many features as you require. Features built according to business-specific requirements No redundant functionalities Developed according to the latest security standards Scalable enough to be upgraded with additional features Flexible to interoperate with other systems Owned fully and used exceptionally by your business Aligned fully with your workflows and goals With 150 projects accomplished , we can be helpful to everyone who requires reliable custom software development services. Our team is a responsible vendor who wants to deliver profit and value to every single customer. Write to us, and we’ll organize an introductory call to demonstrate our portfolio and expertise in the niche you are interested in. Book an introductory call Learn more about DICEUS and tell us about your project Send request About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our development and test engineers, analysts, designers, and project managers continuously study to acquire new knowledge in their fields. We support all employees in creating and following their individual development plans and attending professional workshops, meetups, and conferences. It allows our teams to keep up with the times and obtain skills in the latest technologies like artificial intelligence, ML, big data, the internet of things, and more. Our partnerships Benefits of our custom software development services Usually, a custom software development company is the best option to get your software project developed professionally and cost-effectively. By involving offshore developers, you get access to an international talent pool, and lower costs without compromising security and quality. You are welcome to read about the advantages of cooperating with DICEUS. We have a well-organized SDLC preceded by a discovery phase. Our analysts highly recommend the discovery phase as they get the most precise requirements and communicate those to engineers appropriately, avoiding any ambiguity. So, check out the advantages of DICEUS IT software development services. DICEUS follows Scrum and Agile project management methodologies to deliver high-quality results. Agile Methodology Pinch and spread for zoom Efficient project management Projects are managed by certified Project Managers responsible for monitoring work progress, statuses, blockers, metrics, etc. They keep track of the team’s capacity, velocity, and performance to deliver results as efficiently as possible. In case any specific expertise is required for the project, our PMs will search for and recommend the right experts. If the project requires additional skills or resources for quick scale-up, a dedicated PM will initiate the hiring process. Depending on your time zone and language preferences, we can hire team members from various locations of the world. Transparent business relationships We guarantee the timely gathering of a team according to your requirements and expectations. In case of any misunderstandings or complicated questions, DICEUS receives all clients’ requests and inquiries and escalates those through other management layers. We also practice Quarterly Business Reviews (QBRs) to review and assess the project’s progress and discuss accomplishments and plans for the next quarter. During the execution, you also get timely reports with key metrics, on-demand calls and meetings, and quick responses to any of your requests. Agile development We follow Agile development methodology, which means that the project is broken into smaller phases (usually, sprints lasting 1-2 weeks). It allows us to continuously develop the product and timely get feedback from customers after sprint releases. Customers, in their turn, see the progress and share their thoughts on the released features with us. No inefficient spending Due to our responsible approach to research and development, you won’t need to spend extra fees on unnecessary features or modules. Since our discovery phase covers all questions and details required to learn all about the desired outcomes, we offer the most cost-efficient solution. Key industries we serve Banking Fintech Insurance Logistics Retail Healthcare Our custom software development process To provide result-driven and efficient custom software development services, we stick to standards, experience-proven rules, and transparent SDLC processes. Any project undergoes multiple stages to be completed: initiation, discovery phase, design, engineering and coding, testing, deployment, and closure. Each of those is very important and must be thoroughly organized by both sides. You may also ask for further support and upgrades. Here are the key steps explained. Initiation The first stage involves signing the required documents and agreeing on the initial terms; the subsequent phases are essential. At this moment, we define how we want to cooperate, agree on the terms and conditions, and get to know each other. Initiation provides for close communication that ensures the project’s success. Discovery During planning, also called the discovery phase, all requirements are collected. Our team examines customers’ workflows and technology landscape to decide how well they communicate with each other. Then, we can do POC tests if required and build the MVP to prove your project idea’s viability. Ultimately, you get a detailed strategy explaining how the project will be executed. Execution Execution includes not only the typical coding and engineering jobs. It starts with architecture and basic UI/UX design. Further, we add graphics and other visual elements, develop interactive prototypes, agree on these with a client, and finally, release a solution. All stages involve thorough testing and bug fixing. Closure Once your solution is done, you can get tailored maintenance. We provide personalized support, including 24/7, during working hours, and on-call options. Maintenance tasks can be discussed beforehand or after the project, as a separate activity that requires other forms of cooperation and agreements. Our software development lifecycle Discovery phase Architecture and design Development QA and testing Deployment and launch Support and maintenance How DICEUS can help your business Customer experience Today, CX is one of the critical aspects influencing any business. People are used to doing lots of things online: buying insurance policies in a mobile app or paying their bills through mobile banking, for instance. Instead of visiting physical offices, it is enough to use your mobile phone or a desktop. That’s why it’s so important not to lose your chance to stand out from the crowd. DICEUS has solid experience building CX strategies by involving professional UX/CX specialists. We thoroughly discover your business, customers, and their pain points to offer the most suitable solution. With user interviews, customer personas, and user journey maps, you can build the most effective user experiences. Digital transformation We offer digital transformation consulting with a focus on Agile Transformation. Our goal is to help businesses fundamentally change how they operate, deliver value to customers, and generate new streams of revenue. Agile Transformation consulting is the most popular among our customers, and we are happy to help them adopt agile methodologies and practices to enhance flexibility, speed, and collaboration for their digital projects. Cybersecurity Cybersecurity strategy, as a part of our consulting, involves expert guidance and advice to enterprises on how to assess and manage their cybersecurity risks and develop and implement effective protection policies and procedures. Our consulting includes the development of an effective business-aligned security and protection strategy. Besides, we offer penetration testing for companies that want to check how their systems react to potential security threats and get professional recommendations on how to strengthen their security measures. Get a free 1-hour consultation on your project! Apply What impacts your project duration It’s impossible to name the exact date when the team will finish the work. However, we backed up our previous experience and tried to calculate the approximate timeframe. Below you can see a few significant factors impacting the duration. Scope of tasks Specification formalized Number of IT staff involved Technology stack Change requests What affects your project costs Custom software development services feature pretty diverse costs. These expenses vary depending on several factors you can learn about below. We’ll be glad to explain any of these aspects during our free consulting sessions, upon your request. Licenses and tech costs related to the stack chosen Scope and complexity, including the required features The chosen engagement model, like Time and Material or Dedicated Team Feature changes, if any Desired project deadlines What we need from your side You can do multiple things to ensure the project’s success and help us clearly understand your needs. We value our customers’ willingness to share their requirements for the project. Our team would be grateful for your openness to discuss the following aspects. Requirements for the final product Project visions, goals, and roadmaps High-level requirements for design Specific documents like mockups or user guides Project’s stakeholders from your side Our tech stack The choice of the development team members depends on the programming languages and framework required to deliver the project. Our engineers have profound professional knowledge and skills in the latest technologies so you will surely find the ones you need to realize your project vision. Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Frequently asked questions What are custom software development services? Interested in outsourcing software development? Broadly speaking, custom software product development provides for creating a digital solution from scratch. Unlike out-of-the-box packages similar to all clients, custom apps are unique. By ordering such a solution, you can be sure that nobody on the market has the same. Thus, your market advantage improves. What are the examples of customized software development services? Apart from totally custom tools, there are customized alternatives. They aren’t built from scratch but rather upgraded and improved on the basis of already existing solutions. For instance, if your bank wants to implement Oracle FLEXCUBE but needs certain tech tweaks, you can customize certain aspects. What are the advantages of custom software services? The most crucial advantage is your difference from your competitors. By introducing a solution different from those available, you can provide exclusive offering and attract customers. Thanks to outsourced staff, you can also get the most cost-efficient app that includes only the functions you need. What technologies do you use for tailor-made solutions? Our team is proficient in a wide range of technologies, programming languages, and frameworks. We choose the technology stack based on the specific needs of your project, ensuring a robust and scalable solution. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman