.NET application for dental industry Services provided Software architecture UI/UX design Mobile app development Custom software development DevOps Automated testing Expertise used Cloud solutions Embedded solutions BI and reporting Industry Healthcare Project overview Specialized software helps optimize productivity, facilitate routine work, and boost the overall performance in most existing industries. The modern healthcare industry gets some of the most advanced solutions to improve the way we treat health issues and preserve our wellbeing. In particular, modern dental clinics seek innovative, software-driven approaches to automating cumbersome activities and easily handle organizational moments. Our client’s goal is to provide exactly such a solution, combining digital management features and cloud capabilities. Client Anita Systems Team 2 members Country Norway Duration 6 months Client information Anita Systems is a Norwegian provider of software solutions focused on the healthcare sector. The company offers systems of different complexity and custom software opportunities for dental clinics and other medical facilities. The primary expertise of Anita is outlining and optimizing clinic workflow processes digitally and tying up the medical facility infrastructure with comprehensive software systems, making the life of specialists easier and boosting overall performance. Business challenge Modern dental clinics need specialized software that streamlines workflows and helps structure data, tasks, and schedules while being easy to understand and manage. Specialists shouldn’t experience any downtime figuring out how this or that works. At the same time, as many manual and routine tasks as possible must be digitized for the software to be preferred by the clinic as a way to accelerate recurring tasks and boost workflow efficiency. Technical challenges We had the existing pre-tested visual prototype of a solution for dental clinics that needed further development. The goal was to build an accessible web application to automate the essential dental clinic activities, analyze the quality of medical services, store patient records, and manage the clinics’ network – all in one place. Before our backend engineers began their work, we needed to fine-tune the prototype. The project flow went on subsequently from the backend to the frontend and UI/UX design. Solution delivered The final web app is an easy-to-use, highly available online solution that helps clinic specialists manage all the crucial processes and handle even more tasks via a universal interface they can access from a computer or smartphone/tablet. App users can constantly keep their hand on the pulse of the clinic’s workflows and access automatically stored patient records at any time they need. It helps reduce the paperwork routine dramatically and makes doctors’ work stress-free. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Clinic management Specialists can set up and monitor personnel, services, inventory, and other clinic management specifics in one place. Patient management All patient data and treatment history from the first appointment is stored in a comprehensive, accessible database. Timetable features Specialists can use a set of customizable calendars for the flexible appointments setting and detailed schedule planning. Interactive tooth map An exclusive feature that allows storing and analyzing a patient’s oral cavity map for inspections and surgical preparations. Value to our client Web performance The app has secure web data protection protocols and makes data storage cost-efficient and accessible. Valuable insights All the stored data and fast access to databases allow outlining valuable statistics and reports. Better management Doctors and administrators get an ultimate solution to keep updated and manage clinic infrastructure. Our tech stack .NET Adobe Illustrator Client feedback I appreciate that they’re [DICEUS] constantly learning new methods and platforms. Initially, they wanted to work with Photoshop, but they were able to switch to Adobe Illustrator and worked on improving their skills. I was impressed with their graphic design capabilities. Anita Systems CEO Our other cases Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Healthcare Dental booking app for major software provider Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman