Verisense wearable sensing platform by Shimmer Services provided Custom software development Data migration services Mobile app development Expertise used Cloud solutions IoT Industry Healthcare Software product Project overview Verisense by Shimmer is a wearable sensor platform for clinical trials. It allows for reducing the duration and cost of research and converting data into comprehensive insights about different diseases, possible treatments, and strategies that work best. Client Shimmer Sensing Team 12 members Country Ireland Duration Ongoing Client information Shimmer Sensing is a leading provider of wearable sensing technology solutions and consultancy services since 2008. They offer their products and services to the research and education, pharmaceutical, enterprise and end-user markets. Business challenge Understanding that Clinical Trials are facing crisis and old objective measures are irrelevant today, our client’s goal was to meet the growing demand for medical-grade wearables. These next-generation devices are a low-cost technology that allows effective processing of real-world data for generating clinical evidence in the healthcare industry. The new solution had to provide access to sponsor and participant data to objectively measure activity and sleep indicators. Technical challenges The solution was supposed to gather biometric data with the minimum technical burden on patients and clinical trial sites. It had to capture data from wrist sensors and send it to the cloud providing input data for analysis. We had to ensure data integrity and security by embedding the client’s R/Python algorithms running on AWS Lambda. We have built a cloud-based platform and a mobile app serving as a base station and allowing for continuous patient monitoring. To meet complex data flows, we adjusted the client’s SDK logic. Our developers have embedded new code logic to meet all needed data migration requirements and developed advanced features to ensure data integrity and security. Solution delivered The final solution is a combination of a fully-customizable cloud-based platform integrated with customer’s data processing algorithms and connected with sensor devices by Wi-Fi, BLE5, and LTE. The patients’ data is processed and displayed on web-based dashboards. Base stations and sensor devices can be easily configured on dashboards, as well. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Continuous raw data Once the user is near the base station, biometric data is uploaded automatically. No actions from the patients and sponsors are needed. Due to the embedded algorithms, the data is accurate and highly-secured. Analysis and reporting A lot of metrics can be applied and delivered to the web. The platform can process different sleep and activity data including gait parameters, joint angle calculation, Parkinson’s tremor classification, rehab exercise count, etc. Complete customization The platform is easily implemented and is fully adaptable. It can be customized to meet the specific needs of different clinical trials. Remote monitoring Advanced features allow for continuous remote patient monitoring. The platform can also send messages both to sites and base stations. Value to our client 5 minute set-up time Due to the easy set-up and integration process, the clinical trial sites are able to conduct their studies faster, which allows for cutting costs and duration of trials and providing reliable data for analysis. 3 beta trials with Verisense Letterkenny Institute of Technology is studying fatigue in cancer. Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital’s Motion Analysis Laboratory analyzes recovery from stroke. Boston University at their Alzheimer’s Disease Center uses the study as a prototype for continuous monitoring of Alzheimer’s patients. 2 GHP International Life Sciences Awards Best Clinical Trials Wearable Sensor Technology Company USA, and Best Researcher Wearable Wireless Technology Provider 2019 Reduced clinical trials duration and cost Easy setup procedure and advanced technical capabilities allow reducing the time spent on research. Improved algorithms Advanced algorithms for activity and sleep ensure more accurate data for clinical trials whereas R and Python algorithms ensure data integrity and accuracy. Complete integration options for sponsors Sponsors and patients can easily track their sleep and activity indicators via the mobile application. Our tech stack .NET Core Angular Xamarin Telerik Kendo UI Bootstrap Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Project management Cloud-based project management solution Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman