Dedicated software development team Dedicated development team is an outsourcing model where a software development vendor provides a team of specialists, including developers, test engineers, designers, business analysts, and many others, who work exclusively on your project for an extended period. Let's discuss your needs Hire dedicated development team The software developers’ team is the outsourced version of your in-house department. You can get from one to a few dozens of devs, QA engineers, designers, and other experts who will work on your project exclusively. The only difference is that they work from our offices. Respectively, you cut expenses on facilities and HR activities. Also, you can choose any suitable engagement level, from constant daily monitoring to regular result-focused reports about the offshore development team. Looking for offshore development team? Depending on your requirements, we can hire and gather various employees. Members of your dedicated development team may include (the list isn’t ultimate, feel free to ask us if you need other experts): Auditors Customer experience analysts Back-end, front-end, full-stack developers Business analysts Data science and ML experts Data warehouse engineers DevOps engineers HTML coders Infrastructure specialists Mobile developers Oracle experts Project managers QA automation engineers QA manual engineers Security experts System administrators System architects UI/UX designers Web developers Are you looking for some specific engineers or other experts to gather your offshore dedicated team? Running a project that requires strong expertise in AI or decent mobile knowledge? Realizing that your small and cozy team can’t handle the growing user demand? Then the dedicated software development team model is a must-have for you. Through staff augmentation, we find and onboard experts, merge them with your in-house team. You can forget about all the mess and focus on the core business. We find, hire dedicated developers, and manage them. You get the extended team and see real results. That’s simple. Hire dedicated developers Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of the offshore dedicated team Cost-efficiency is the killer feature of our dedicated software teams. You spend a tiny fraction of your regular hiring budget but get perfect returns. A few of the most notable benefits include: Full dedication to your project Dedicated software development means that all experts you hire will work on one particular project only. It’s like your in-house employees, but they don’t need office space, software licenses, and other perks. Hassle-free transparent monitoring Forget about management worries and enjoy full visibility into your projects. You can easily track every status and communicate directly with our team, ensuring you stay informed and in control without the administrative headache. Huge knowledge pools around the world We have offices in the USA, Poland, Austria, Ukraine, Lithuania, Denmark, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and the UAE. If you can’t find the needed experts in your country, we will scan the available talent pools and create dedicated software teams for you. Kickstart in a few days after initial contact The project should launch the next week, but you don’t have the team? Our overseas developers are highly flexible. You can involve a dedicated offshore team from the bench almost immediately to start working quickly. Our engagement models Depending on your needs, we offer two cooperation variants to hire dedicated software development teams. Both of them deliver results proven by 200+ successful enterprise projects. If you’re unsure about the actual needs, just ask us. You can identify business goals and choose a suitable model with our business analysis services. Staff extension provides for empowering existing groups while the standalone team model delivers ready-to-start-working professionals from scratch. To hire offshore developers of your dreams, it’s enough to follow our standard process. Selection of candidates The first step after initial discussions provides for finding, interviewing, comparing, and approving the team members based on your criteria. Your involvement may change. For example, we can review and choose the specialists together, you can do it on your own, or you can make the final selection only. As for hiring dedicated software developers, there are three options: bench (up to 2 days), pipeline (1-2 weeks), market (4-6 weeks). Onboarding After all the vacancies are filled, the team can start working. If you’ve chosen the extension option, new members should be onboarded, merged with your existing employees. In the case of the dedicated team from scratch, it meets your stakeholders, gets project detail, and starts completing tasks from our office. Cooperative work Actual work can last pretty long. We ensure that dedicated software developers work properly, so you can get results on time, on scope, and on budget. You want to be sure that communication and collaboration are smooth. For this, we fulfill change requests, tune the team, help with motivation and extra activities. Scaling and extra services Talking about changes and tweaks, feel free to ask us about them directly. You can quickly hire offshore developers or decrease the number of members according to the project requirements. You also can get new roles like PMs, BAs, etc. Extra support options like relocation, insurance, reporting are at your disposal, too. Experiencing a lack of technical expertise and skills? Connect with a professional team to address your project challenges. Contact us About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available What impacts your project duration The dedicated team model relies on hiring options heavily. While experts on the bench can start working on the product in 1-2 days, market hiring may take 4 to 6 weeks. The most essential factors that affect schedules include: Key deadlines that show how quickly you need the project completed Requirements and business goals of your company Team composition and the availability of the required experts The chosen technical stack and software The hiring process such as bench, pipeline, or market What affects your project costs Dedicated team costs also rely on hiring activities, as well as a few other factors. Usually, this model provides for a flat price determined per resource and paid monthly. We can estimate costs for your custom project after getting the requirements: Licenses and technical costs related to the chosen stack Scope and complexity, including the required features The chosen dedicated team hiring option Urgency of the project, deadlines Number and seniority of team members What we need from your side The dedicated team model divides project responsibilities clearly. We take care of hiring, training, payroll, and other office things. But you should manage the hired experts because they merge with your in-house team. Precisely, some of your actions may include: Be available for requirements gathering sessions Share project knowledge, goals, and roadmaps Share high-level project requirements and needs Share specific docs like mockups or user guides Control and manage the dedicated team Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing Our tech stack Explore our case studies Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Education IT staff augmentation for eKool e-learning platform Banking IT staff augmentation for Raiffeisen Bank’s IT projects Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What is a dedicated development team? A dedicated development team is an excellent approach to outsourcing. The idea is to extend your in-house team with offshore developers. These new specialists are onboarded and become the real part of your internal department. They just work remotely on your product. How can I manage a dedicated team? There are different options. Depending on your capabilities and wishes, you can participate in team management with different effort/time contribution. For example, you can handle it all yourself after hiring. Or you can leave it to us and focus on high-level monitoring only. How do you scale up or down a dedicated team? Scaling is possible in both directions. If you need more dedicated offshore developers or new qualifications, we scan our bench, check the recruitment pipeline, and look for experts on the market. In the case of downscaling, we can decrease the team’s size after an agreed transition period. Similar services Custom software development services Software team extension Web app development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman