Data science consulting services and solutions Talk to our data science specialists What we offer The convergence of data science consulting and software engineering is increasing the opportunities of modern businesses to transform and improve their services. For most companies, reliable data analytics is being one of the biggest challenges today. We know how to help you by implementing the latest machine learning and data science solutions. Data science consulting services and software can help you grow your sales in any niche, enhance operational efficiency, govern risks effectively. Our developers collaborate with data science specialists to build software with advanced and custom-tailored data algorithms and patterns. Our data analytics consultancy includes artificial intelligence, machine learning, natural language processing, predictive analytics, data mining. Data science consulting services and solutions Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of data science consulting services Build a strong business by implementing data science solutions with a guaranteed fast ROI. We know how to tackle your most challenging problems and bring your company to a new level. Data science solutions can help you increase sales, improve efficiency, optimize risk management. One of the most attractive advantages of data science is its power of enabling digital transformation. Increase sales Harness data science patterns for sales in retail, e-commerce, and other industries to provide your customers with better user experience, personalized services and products, and excellent customer support. Special algorithms and patterns can be developed to recommend consumers the products you would like to sell at the moment. Enhance efficiency Data science solutions can accelerate data processing and management in your organization. Imagine that big data sets could be processed in a couple of hours using one algorithm, whereas the same work will be done manually for two weeks. Machine learning solutions ensure fast and reliable data analytics, which reduces operational costs and improves efficiency significantly. Manage risks Data science consulting firms can help you to implement accurate business forecasting. By adopting predictive analytics tools, you can better forecast consumer needs and market demands. Being well-informed in the current market situation and customer preferences, you will be able to focus on creating more targeted marketing campaigns and service offerings. Transform your business Data analytics consultancy can add many values to your business: improve decision-making, identify risks and new opportunities quickly, improve performance. Our specialists can help you understand how to apply data science to your industry properly. They develop digital transformation strategies considering your challenges and using our expertise in the latest technologies. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our data science consulting services and solutions With an in-depth understanding of dozens of business domains, we will help you implement the right technology. Data science consulting We provide data science consulting along and custom development to help you find the best ways to use and implement data science. Our engineers, architects, and data scientists focus on your business challenges to deliver the most suitable solutions. Our expertise includes business process automation, data strategy, data security, data warehouse and ETL solutions, business intelligence and reporting, advanced analytics. Machine learning solutions Machine learning can streamline and automate your business processes by turning your data from disparate sources into single databases. By applying ML within your organization, you can also improve security by improving fraud and cyber-attacks detection frameworks. Our engineers and architects can create custom ML software for advanced analysis, optimized prioritization, improved customer service across various industries. Artificial intelligence solutions We offer our data science consultancies and expertise in artificial intelligence technology to build solutions for robotic process automation (RPA), business intelligence and reporting, big data processing and management, etc. Our knowledge allows us to bring new values for companies searching for workable marketing, seamless customer segmentation, accurate sales analysis, etc. Predictive analytics solutions We build, test, and implement predictive analytics tools for a wide range of business domains. These solutions are built concerning your needs to identify customer preferences and build successful strategies, improve operations, forecast resources and inventory. Depending on your requirements, our specialists will recommend the best areas to apply predictive analytics. What impacts your project duration A lot of factors affect the duration of data science projects. Below you can discover the most critical ones. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms The complexity of data science patterns What affects your project costs Data science project cost is usually calculated, taking into account the following things. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side Our clients are sure that we will deliver their project on time, scope, and budget. However, we always appreciate your help in providing meaningful insights into your project. Usually, we need to get requirements, goals, project vision, and documentation from your side. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Agriculture Earth observation crop rotation software Insurance Earth observation software for insurance niche Agriculture Earth observation unique algorithm to calculate soil moisture index Agriculture Earth observation cloud‑based software Frequently asked questions What is data science consulting? Data science consulting, combined with tech advisory, is aimed to help businesses find the best technology solutions to their pressing challenges. Our data scientists and software engineers are here to provide professional consulting on your project. What does a data science consultant do? Top things provided by data science consulting companies include data visualization services, machine learning expertise, artificial intelligence expertise, programming, building patterns and data models, and many more. Why are data science consulting services important? In the modern world, data is a driving force for innovation and streamlined business growth. Data science consulting will open new opportunities to your business to harness data for better efficiency, operational costs reduction, and improved customer satisfaction. Who can look for data science consulting? Any business can start adopting data science for its processes. We are one of a few data consulting firms to provide you with a comprehensive software project strategy for free. It will help you understand better how you can leverage data science for your specific business needs. Similar expertise BI and Reporting Robotics process automation (RPA) Data warehouse and ETL Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman