Insurance agency management software development services Since 2011, DICEUS has accomplished more than 20 projects for leading insurance companies, including agencies and brokers. Our custom solutions were built for UNIQA, BriteCore, Willis Towers Watson, BenefitNet, and others. Discuss your needs Send request Tailor-made insurance agency management software allows agencies to operate efficiently, promote and sell coverages, create reports, and more. As a rule, such systems provide CRM, sales and marketing functionalities that can work as stand-alone modules or in confluence with each other for the best performance. DICEUS develops custom agency management systems for insurance, considering the unique needs of a particular organization. It means you get a tailor-made and highly personalized IT product with a set of features according to organizational scale, needs, and demands stipulated by the current insurtech realm. Our services DICEUS is a custom insurance agency management software company that offers exclusive bespoke solutions empowering agency staff to work from anywhere. You can get fully customized features like quoting, account management, claim submission, marketing and remarketing — all enriched with 24/7 support and convenient payment platforms. Custom software development The vast activities of modern agencies pose exclusive software requirements that include legal norms, terminology, metrics, and more. A tailored approach to the respective insurance agency management system development is vital in this case. Our experience in custom-built solutions spans years, and we know how to meet specific goals in this sector. We will incorporate all your demands, add the functionalities needed, and optimize workflows. You will obtain a reliable solution that covers a vast scope of management tasks. CRM development Unlock the power of a digital approach to managing customer relationships with a tailor-made CRM implemented as a stand-alone solution or incorporated into your current system. We offer customizable dashboards, sales pipelines, reporting, simplified and fully automated product distribution, account management, etc. All this is engineered after in-depth CX research that helps us identify the most pressing challenges of the agency’s current and targeted customers. Our UX specialists organize interviews with the agency’s clients to create customer persona descriptions and user journey maps afterward. Thus, you get the software built with a customer in mind, which will increase customer loyalty to your company. System modernization Any agency management system will require upgrades sooner or later. With the rapid evolution of omnichannel customer experience, ubiquitous digitalization, and powerful opportunities ensured by artificial intelligence, businesses need not forget to timely update their systems and enrich them with the latest technologies. Only so can they stay competitive and manage their organizations as effectively as possible. Web and mobile app development To remain competitive today, companies should embrace the omnichannel approach. Customers want to get access to insurance-related services from any device, at any time. To help insurers enhance customer experience, we offer mobile and web application development solutions that include various domains. In a nutshell, you can get full-cycle software development that includes all stages, from customer research and business analysis to optimization and tech support. Example of account management module for insurance agency management software insurance agency management software Pinch and spread for zoom Want to discuss your project? Send request Benefits of our insurance agency software development services 13 years of experience Clearly, it takes a huge deal of knowledge, experience, and skills to develop insurance agency management system software. Our team has been fruitfully working in this field for years and has completed dozens of winning projects. Staying at the forefront of tech advancements, we always offer our clients the latest developments in the IT field. Essentially, we aim at building a valuable solution that enhances business operations and maximizes gains. Focus on business values If you wish to get things off on the right foot with your project, you should primarily focus on the major business goals. We make clients’ purposes our main starting point when taking an insurance agency management software job. Our experts put all their efforts into creating a supremely efficient product designed not only to address your existing issues but also to facilitate further business expansion. Excellent QA process Our team has established a well-defined Quality Assurance process aimed at minimizing errors, bugs, and other software defects during the development life cycle. Our test engineers’ qualifications are confirmed with ISTQB certificates, while their testing experience covers IT projects of varying complexity. We work in strict accordance with the QA standards, have meticulously organized testing strategies, and responsibly keep all QA documentation. Wide technology stack Thanks to a high-level tech stack, we can effectively deal with projects of any scale and complexity. Our engineers realize that the technologies we utilize for our projects must possess a high scalability potential. Thus, Java and .NET feature proper scalability for enterprise-scale systems. For every project, we select the right technology stack intended to cut costs and maximize value. To optimize the selection process, we provide IT consulting, staff augmentation, and custom software development. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our partners Our insurance agency software development process Discovery The discovery phase marks the beginning of every project handled by our company. At this stage, we study our client’s purposes and align them with the projected budget and time frame. We define the business goals, consider long-term prospects, and evaluate the target audience and the market. Then, we analyze the collected data to derive useful insights. The stage should result in the major demands and specifications for the project. Development Here, we start planning our project. Our engineers work on the solution architecture and prototypes with their further deployment. Developers consider the entire range of design elements, from features, modules, and interfaces to databases, functional algorithms, and the code itself. As a result, we provide a customer with Design Document Specifications describing the product in detail, which allows for the creation of the efficient agency management system the insurance sector requires. Testing Testing is critical before the release stage as it helps to discover maximum bugs and minimize reworks. Our engineers check the software performance, code quality, all functional areas, integrations, security, and more. If they reveal any troubles, they fix those and send the product back for re-test. The advanced testing techniques allow our team to embrace the entire code with test cases. Therefore, we can assure our customers that the release stage will go smoothly. Deployment Our checking procedures do not end at the testing stage. During the deployment phase, we extensively check the software created using our in-house hardware and also in the real environment. This approach eliminates any issues on the customer side and helps users master the product promptly. The deployment runs hassle-free if all the bugs and other issues have been removed in the previous phases. Correspondingly, the product release occurs timely and successfully. Our SDLC Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance What impacts your project duration The insurance agency management software development is a comprehensive job that can take from several days to several years, depending on the project’s complexity. The overall time frame depends on the following major factors. Project requirements Time-to-market Team composition Chosen technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs Our experts make the cost estimation process transparent for our customers. The calculation for your specific project will depend on several vital factors. Scope of work and project’s complexity The number of upgrades and customizations Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side To make our cooperation fruitful, we usually ask our clients to provide certain information. Here are the main things that can facilitate a valuable outcome. Project goals and vision Project requirements All relevant documentation, such as software architecture and mockups Your availability schedule for meetings and discussions Estimated deadlines Our achievements Our tech stack Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company FAQ What is custom insurance agency software? Agencies require specific software that can handle various jobs. Off-the-shelf solutions do not always satisfy the agency’s needs. That’s why, often, businesses consider tailor-made IT products. DICEIS delivers feasible solutions for communication with clients, processing of claims, automation of numerous routine tasks, and minimizing paperwork. If your agency needs a system with a unique set of functionalities, we are here to help you. How to choose the right software for an insurance agency? The main trick here is to employ the right vendor. Developers of insurance agency software should possess a good understanding of various business lines and workflows inherent in the insurance sector. Here at DICEUS, we have already completed more than twenty projects for agencies and learned how they work, what tools they need, and how to improve processes. Our knowledge and skills in a great variety of programming languages and frameworks allow us to professionally come up with the most complicated projects. What features should an insurance agency software have? In a nutshell, these systems should securely keep data related to the brand and its clients, track key processes, analyze information, create reports, ensure proper control, automate tasks, and support integration with other solutions. Specifically, we would highlight the following capabilities that are most helpful to customers: continual access to customer information; integrated bill payment and reminders setting; electronic ID storage – for instant access to insurance accounts; convenient policy update – to avoid excessive paperwork; and the opportunity to create claim reports. Related services Risk management Claims management Policy management Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman