Supply chain software development services DICEUS offers supply chain software development services designed to help businesses streamline and optimize their supply chain processes. Get a consultation Book a call Robust and efficient supply chains are blood vessels that keep the modern economy going by uniting manufacturers, suppliers, distributors, retailers, and consumers into a close-knit system. The supply chain management (SCM) software development services we provide will ensure your enterprise has everything it needs for nonstop operation, enabling its personnel to manage all business processes across the entire production flow—from sourcing raw materials to shipping finished goods. Our supply chain software development services Custom supply chain software development Custom software always emphasizes your company’s uniqueness. One-size-fits-all solutions can hardly work better than tailor-made supply chain software designed strictly to your requirements. Our approach to your production process can provide what any company appreciates in supply chain management: the just-in-time reaction to emerging needs that refer to replenishment. We can create an individual innovative inventory system immediately, signaling to restock your warehouse when any item leaves. SCM web and mobile development Even though supply chains are usually multifaceted, their remote management can be arranged via web and mobile solutions with sufficient computing capacities. Neither an excessive staff member is always present personally at all links of your supply chain, nor is day-and-night monitoring via in-office desktop systems necessary when the internet coverage and the variety of mobile technologies allow your SCM system to work on your smartphone. We can develop web and mobile SCM solutions that help you be aware of the status of your production flow anytime, anywhere. SCM software audit and consulting Our professional audit and consulting services are always available to identify potential problems in your SCM software. Do your customers order more than you can deliver or vice versa? Do they complain of insufficient service? If your current SCM system does not allow you to anticipate either the shortage or overstocking, some system updates or even reconfiguration seem to be necessary. Our experts are here to analyze your SCM software before your customers are entirely disappointed. Maintenance and technical support If your business keeps developing, your supply chain management has to do the same. More deals imply more interactions between all links of your supply chain. Maintenance and technical support can never go amiss amid the growing complexity of your production flow. We provide the full scope of work to keep your SCM system always up-to-date. Moreover, our specialists can dynamically optimize your SCM software’s parameters to meet any new challenge in your industry segment. Logistics management Typically, logistic processes are administered via a dedicated module within an SCM system. We can craft standalone logistics software solutions to streamline and facilitate freight operations, essentially automate the shipping pipeline, reduce delivery time, cut down on costs, and provide improved customer service, implementing logistics optimization on a large scale. Besides, we can integrate them into your current ecosystem to maximize their value and provide seamless functioning of the enterprise’s digital environment. Supply chain analytics Supply chain operations generate vast volumes of data; it would be a shame to let it go down the drain. The data analytics solutions we build enable entrepreneurs to make sense of this vast bulk of business information by pinpointing trends and anomalies across the entire supply chain. Then, business analysts and C-suite managers can leverage these valuable insights for operational and strategic decision-making, fine-tuning or even radically overhauling routine supply chain processes, and exercising continuous improvement of the supply chain lifecycle. supply chain management | DICEUS Pinch and spread for zoom supply chain management Pinch and spread for zoom Get a professional consultation on your supply chain software project! Send request Must-have features for supply chain software Our best-in-class custom development services are honed for building bespoke SCM solutions containing any modules your organization needs in its business operations. The basic features ensuring smooth supply chain performance include. Inventory management Often combined with warehouse management systems, the inventory management module enables real-time monitoring of supply levels across all warehouses, depots, and distribution centers, helping companies prevent stockouts and avoid overstocking. We can enhance regular inventory management systems with advanced capabilities (automated reordering, dynamic buffer management, inventory control, replenishment recommendations, and more), enabling them to radically improve operational efficiency and optimize inventory management to the maximum. Transportation management This feature ensures uninterrupted inbound and outbound movement of goods by air, land, and sea. It allows personnel to control transportation processes across the entire lifecycle, which includes planning, execution, follow-up, and evaluation. It is highly instrumental in conducting intelligent batching, optimizing fleet management, choosing the shortest itinerary, avoiding choke points and traffic jams, reducing excess trips, cutting down on travel costs, analyzing weather conditions along the delivery route, and more. Supplier relationship management You can’t build a stable and extended supply chain unless you establish a strong and lasting rapport with your business partners. The supplier relationships management (SRM) module streamlines supply chain planning and ensures consistency of your procurement processes. Using it, you can assess current suppliers’ performance, determine the potential risk of collaboration with each, dissect the supply base, and craft tailored strategies for interaction with individual companies. Such an approach allows you to forge strong ties with partners and foster mutual trust in cooperation. Order management Order management systems are mission-critical tools for delivering the ultimate customer experience. They guarantee consumers get their goods on time, tracking the order from the moment it is received to the moment of its delivery. To ensure the item never gets lost and is shipped on time, order management software relies on electronic data interchange with the CRM and inventory management module, enabling real-time order status tracking, and has omnichannel integration capabilities across multiple sales platforms to make the customer journey from coast to coast as comfortable as possible. Document management Supply chain operations involve handling numerous documents. The larger the company, the more likely it is to be snowed under the plethora of papers it has to deal with. A document management tool can significantly streamline the red tape routine by helping employees collect, process, and categorize records pertaining to supply chain workflows. Moreover, the state-of-the-art solutions we build allow enterprises to usher in document management process automation and ensure immediate access to the necessary files from any device with an SCM application installed. Supply chain finance Generally, all financial operations are performed within the accounting module of the company’s ERP. However, some organizations prefer to have a specialized feature responsible for supply chain finances. By having such capability in place, businesses obtain complete visibility of the trapped capital and insights concerning cash flow conversion cycles. With such information at their fingertips, personnel can optimize financial processes related to the supply chain pipeline and maximize its ROI. Capacity planning This custom asset tracking software increases supply chain visibility and enables companies to align customer demand planning with available manufacturing and storage capacities. Thanks to the module, enterprises can develop a comprehensive capacity utilization plan that covers their current and future business needs related to the choice and usage of machinery, asset performance optimization, and bottleneck elimination. Potential scenarios it envisages help balance demand and supply coordination to maximize the efficiency of the available working capital. Performance measurement Supply chain management efforts depend critically on the efficiency of the workforce. The performance measurement functionality allows businesses to assess how well they fulfill their responsibilities. It offers a set of KPIs (productivity rate, error rate, work quality appraisal, absenteeism/overtime indices, etc.) used for evaluating employee performance and provides a methodology for such assessment. The metrics’ flexibility allows managers to align them with the organization’s business objectives and benchmark obtained results against industry standards, identifying areas for improvement. Predictive analytics Future-proofing is a vital element of any company’s activity. You can’t hit it big if you don’t try to anticipate market development scenarios and predict consumer preference dynamics. This software is honed to sift through multiple historical and real-time data points concerning internal and external factors, expose patterns, and make accurate predictions. Armed with such information, businesses can perform demand forecasting, exercise proactive risk management, improve strategic planning, and make knowledgeable decisions at each stage of the supply chain lifecycle. Self-service portal It is not an obligatory functionality, yet by implementing it, companies can release pressure on their staff and allow suppliers, retailers, distributors, and other partners to handle various workflows independently. The company determines the scope of the self-service portal’s capabilities, and we will satisfy its requirements by enabling external users to manage orders, resolve queries, access documentation, manage accounts, update product catalogs, track shipments, submit invoices, and perform other shop floor operations. Benefits of our supply chain software development services IT staff augmentation option In-house employees are no longer the only option for companies. This is especially important when IT staff becomes a must-have for companies in any industry. Optimization of labor resources lags behind the augmented IT staff we offer. We relieve the company’s supply chain management from all tensions and liabilities accumulated due to the need to recruit, pay, and control the in-house IT specialists capable of maintaining SCM software in due course. Our IT staff augmentation service helps executives focus on business issues instead of being bothered with the IT routines necessary to handle SCM systems. Turnkey development option No multiple contractors are needed to create and deploy an SCM software system. Analyzing your production flow, prototyping the desired SCM architecture, programming and testing the system, providing deployment and post-deployment services, and maintaining the finished SCM software over its whole lifecycle all belong to elements of our comprehensive turnkey development option. Moreover, our customers are spared from having to independently create specifications for future SCM software: it’s just a matter of interviewing our project managers to set things straight. No loose ends remain to pull when your SCM system is created under our turnkey development. Expertise in advanced tech Our constant desire to keep pace with the most up-to-date software technologies is our key advantage in terms of expertise. We face no constraints in accessing data while building SCM software systems: IoT-generated datasets can be seamlessly integrated with ERP platforms through various B2B tools. We protect SCM systems with the most advanced cyber-security technologies, including blockchain. Various AI-powered algorithms for deep business analysis are also within the scope of our expertise. Outcomes guarantee Leaving customers alone after their SCM software is created and deployed is bad manners, as we believe. We prefer sharing full responsibility with our customers for all outcomes brought by the software solutions we create. Our reputation matters too much to let our customers question our ability to provide the trouble-free operation of the delivered software. The outcomes’ guarantee is a decent approach to mitigate such doubts. We start discussing the guarantee coverage with customers at the very initial stage of SCM software development, not to let any outcome appear circumstantial. Our supply chain software development process Discovery phase All your requirements regarding the future SCM software are collected during the discovery phase. Personal meetings with customers and online ones should be arranged as many times as necessary to clarify all possible aspects of the system’s functionality. Nothing must be left to chance when the business reputation of our customers is at stake: the stronger the mutual understanding between a customer and our developers, the less redesign work can occur during the process. Frictionless operation of the future SCM system originates in the discovery phase. UI/UX design As a vetted supply chain software development company, we are sure that the solution’s design should be consistent across all platforms and accessible even for personnel with low tech skills. That is why while building a Proof of Concept and prototyping, we prioritize seamless user experience and emphasize user-friendly layouts and visuals aligned with specific supply chain workflows, clear and logical navigation, inclusivity, interactivity, intuitiveness, and focus on practical use of the software product. Development When the project specification, team composition, technology stack, and other relevant terms and conditions are finalized, our developers start programming under the selected development life cycle. Our customers are always able to supervise every iteration, no matter which type of SDLC we use in each particular case. Keeping the design and development phase as transparent for our customers as possible helps us reduce redundant efforts: the time-saving development becomes very cost-effective. QA and testing We appreciate proactive testing throughout the entire development life cycle. Such QA allows us to deliver high-quality code for every module of the SCM system. Besides, our team makes sure that every function works according to the customer’s expectations. Both automated and manual tests are subject to a preliminary plan. All the testing results are meticulously recorded in a special document to facilitate future updates and possible reconfigurations. Deployment support The correct operation of any SCM software depends on both the system’s predesigned functionality and properly executed deployment. The second factor includes examining the customer’s IT infrastructure to avoid any sort of incompatibility that might occur between the new SCM system and the existing IT environment. Our support specialists check the customer’s software ecosystem to identify all possible gaps that might compromise the successful deployment of SCM software. We support our customers in mitigating technical issues in both pre-deployment and post-deployment periods. Our SDLC Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance What impacts your project duration Despite many SCM software solutions looking similar, they may require different completion periods. Especially when it comes to the highly customized software products we propagate. Software development is a very artistic process that implies many non-trivial approaches, the timeframe of which is hardly predictable. Nonetheless, our specialists can make more or less precise calculations of the working hours necessary to complete the project when the software development specification (SDS) is available. In general, the following factors should be taken into consideration: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs As in the case of project duration, each SCM system’s cost depends on the developed software’s final configuration. There is a direct correlation between the work required to complete the project and the final cost. We always represent a transparent calculation in which even customers who stay far from software development can find exhaustive information about why the solution costs what it does. Such info usually includes the following cost-determining factors inter alia: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We never require a ready-to-use SDS from our customers: creating such a document is far from what they do in their business. However, we seek to have as tight a collaboration as possible with our clients to avoid any misunderstanding in the future development process. That’s why we propose arranging face-to-face meetings (the online ones are also acceptable) to reach a shared project vision through the most natural communication. If such meetings appear problematic for some reason, we’d like to get the following data from customers to start our work: Project goals, vision, and a roadmap, if available High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available Client’s availability for weekly gathering session Our tech stack Our achievements Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Explore our supply chain management software development case studies Logistics A fleet management application for soldier trucking Logistics A blockchain solution for Vlantana Retail SAP ERP audit for Palmers Textil Automotive Enterprise resource planning tool for a transport company Retail Pentaho and microstrategy audit for Palmers Textil Frequently asked questions What are the must-have features of supply chain management software? Neither overstocking nor understocking should happen at your warehouses to compromise your business sustainability. The inventory and stock management features help optimize your stock levels, therefore. The highly configurable billing management feature allows you to process orders from a single location in your SCM system. You should have a transportation and dispatch management feature in your SCM software for efficient shipping of raw materials and finished products. A portal for communication with suppliers and customers makes your entire supply chain work smoothly. The end-to-end tracking feature provides you with real-time info about everything that happens within your supply chain. The features mentioned above are essential for any SCM system. At the same time, you can develop any other feature according to your particular requirements. What are the latest technologies used for logistics software solutions? The integrated AI, augmented intelligence, is a promising trend, especially in warehouse management. The technology combines human experience with AI algorithms that are capable of delivering helpful suggestions based on stats and big data. IoT sensors are another trend that facilitates real-time tracking of vehicles and products that move over the entire supply chain. Distributed ledger technology, better known as a blockchain, offers a revolutionary approach to inventory management. The technology provides the most secure data sharing, protected by cryptographic encryption. Finally, the last-mile delivery is the emerging trend that implies the urbanization of deliveries, comprising various methods of shipping automation and ML-based predictive analytics. We can implement any of the technologies into your bespoke SCM software. Why is moving supply chain software to the cloud popular nowadays? Cloud migration is a megatrend covering everything in the global digital environment. Cloud providers offer almost unlimited computing capacities and enormous data storage space at a very reasonable price (monthly/annual subscription model). Besides, the cybersecurity properties of in-cloud solutions outperform those inherent in most on-premise systems. The functionality and complexity of supply chain management software make any SCM system a perfect candidate to migrate to the cloud. We have vast hands-on experience in cloud migration of various sorts, along with sufficient expertise to create a cloud-based SCM solution from scratch. Similar solutions E-commerce apps Retail apps POS software Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman