Managed IT services and support Get consulting on managed IT services What we offer Delegating IT tasks to an external provider can solve your toughest challenges with downtime, ineffective operational processes, high workforce costs, and many more. Look through the list of managed IT service solutions we offer to our clients. Managed IT services and support Pinch and spread for zoom Managed migration services We are mature managed IT service company to help you with any project requiring data migration. These can be, for example, migration from on-premise to cloud, from cloud to cloud, data migration in data warehouse projects, integration projects, and many more. Whatever you need, we offer guaranteed success and on-time service delivery. Managed DevOps services Delegate your DevOps to a professional managed IT provider (MSP) to build CI/CD pipelines, implement a new or updated IT infrastructure, migrate to another infrastructure, or other. With managed services, it can be faster to release new products and better collaborate across various departments. We have expertise in the AWS code pipeline, Docker, Digital Ocean, Oracle Database, and many more. Managed testing services We offer managed IT support in all testing-related activities for your software product development. Managed testing is recommended if you don’t have skilled resources onboard, or you would like to get unbiased QA service. Our test engineers are experienced in manual and automated testing, including security testing, penetration testing, and integration testing. Managed support services We are a managed IT support company offering multiple technical support options: 24×7 covering all time zones, 24×5 covering all time zones, 12×5 covering 12 hours per day on business days, 8×5 covering business hours only, and on-call support options with variations. Please contact us to learn more about the option that is interesting for your company. The list of managed IT support services we provide is not limited to the above services. Please contact us if you have specific needs and requirements to learn if we could help you with those. Besides, if you are unsure about what you need, our analysts can conduct an in-depth business analysis to discover that. Get consulting on managed IT services Managed IT services and support Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of managed IT services Managed IT solutions like disaster recovery, data backup, network monitoring and management, DevOps, integration, and others, can improve your employees’ productivity significantly by eliminating the need to continually monitor and manage complicated IT jobs and tasks. Below are all benefits you can get from IT managed support. Increased efficiency Any downtime associated with IT infrastructure problems results in lost productivity. Managed IT company can help you solve many issues related to downtime caused by ineffective operations and data flow by migrating to the cloud, implementing the latest business intelligence solutions empowered by artificial intelligence and robotic process automation technologies. Stronger security We are a managed IT security services provider to help your business ensure higher security of your IT infrastructure, your company data, your customer personal data by implementing stronger verification methods, developing effective data access rights management patterns, implementing the most efficient data recovery and backup strategies. Better awareness Managed IT services are a key to making your reporting and analytics organized and data-driven. Together with regular monitoring, we provide comprehensive reports on audits, support, troubleshooting, bug detection and fixing, other technical gaps and issues you might have. Continuous reporting will increase your awareness of IT issues and will serve as a basis for effective decision-making. Faster time to market Faster time to market is possible thanks to efficient operations ensured by intelligent automation and outsourcing your IT jobs to an external provider. Our analysts are skilled in discovering your pressing challenges and finding the right solutions to those, accompanied by our team’s right service offering. Our managed IT services Any IT managed service requires a step-by-step strategy developed specifically for your organization to bring real business values. Thus, we start with consulting and brainstorming sessions with clients to understand what they need. Afterword, come in-depth analysis, planning, and execution. Consulting IT managed services and solutions consulting is provided to detect your high-level requirements for a given service. Traditionally, we will need a couple of hours to find out what type of service better fits your challenges. Besides, we offer a quick and free 30-minute strategy comprising basic consulting. Analysis In case you make up your mind on any IT managed service, our team of analytics and technical specialists will discover your business to gather all requirements, logic, needs, goals. Together with you or representatives from your side, we will create a project strategy, roadmap, statement of work, master service agreement, and other documents needed to deliver the services efficiently. Strategy The project strategy is built according to the formalized requirements. It may include a project roadmap, work breakdown structure, suitable tech stack, resources and timeline, and many more. The strategy and deliverables will depend on your project type, scope, and complexity. Execution Our managed IT services are provided by highly-skilled and certified project managers, analysts, developers, test engineers, designers, and DevOps. We guarantee flexibility by offering excellent scale-up and scale-down capabilities, various support options, and a wide range of services you can get in one place. Get consulting on managed IT services What impacts your project duration Managed IT services and solutions are diverse; that’s why it is difficult to say how much time it will take to deliver these services. For your information, here is a standard list of things affecting the duration. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms The volume of data and number of data schemas and systems to be transferred The type of managed IT services What affects your project costs The cost of managed IT services depends on the type of required service, which may be custom development from scratch or on-call technical support. Here are the things that affect the cost. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team The type of managed IT services What we need from your side From the client-side, we usually need requirements, the most pressing challenges, and goals. The rest of the things is as follows. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Get consulting on managed IT services Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Frequently asked questions What are managed IT services and solutions? Managed IT services are network management, testing, DevOps, technical support, data migration, and others requiring special skills and external resources. Software outsourcing providers usually offer a wide range of such services under pre-defined conditions. Why choose managed IT services for business? Managed IT services fit best to those companies that don’t have the required technical skills and stack on board or don’t have much time and resources to execute these tasks. With external efforts, you can significantly accelerate time to market, improve efficiency, and reduce costs on the in-house workforce. What are the benefits of managed IT services? Among the most significant advantages of managed IT services, we can name predictable costs, expertise in technology and business domain, regular upgrades, transparent reporting, time savings, faster time to market, and many more. Similar services Software support Manual testing DevOps Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman