Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · AI · Insurance · 6 min. read · 2769 reads · 16 Feb 2024 21 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence and fraud detection software in insurance Even medium-sized insurance agencies operate hundreds of thousands of dollars in their regular shop floor activities, whereas the money flow of behemoths in the sector reaches millions. Naturally, such considerable sums attract various unscrupulous people and downright swindlers who want to capitalize on the inadequacies of protective systems insurance organizations utilize. AI-powered fraud detection solutions for insurance are second-to-none instruments that can boost companies’ anti-fraud mechanisms and forestall potential financial and reputational losses resulting from fraud. But before we zoom in on the application scenarios and benefits of artificial intelligence in insurance fraud detection, it is necessary to understand the nature of the most significant fraud-related issues in the industry. organizational priority assigned for fraud management Pinch and spread for zoom Challenges of insurers concerning fraud Modern insurance organizations make fraud detection and prevention a cornerstone of their security policies. However, in the US alone, the consequences of fraud cost them over $308 billion every year. How come? Evidently, scammers become ever more sophisticated in trying to scam insurers. The traditional range of tricks they employ with this goal (overstating the value of stolen items, false injury, unnecessary treatment, wrongful billing, staged accidents, duplicate claims, misinterpretation, and non-disclosure, etc.) grows radically due to innovations and ground-breaking technology achievements exploited by them. The “latest fraud trends” where artificial intelligence plays a pivotal role include: Voice cloning. Fraudsters access a person’s audio and video posts on social media to obtain a sample of their voice. Then, they forge its clone and use it to answer phone calls from insurance agents who want to talk to a customer about the document or email they “sent.” Deepfake photos and videos. AI technology helps fabricate fake videos or pictures by manipulating existing photos or video footage. Utilizing these synthetic media, criminals can create false accounts on social networks or even fake video calls via Zoom or Skype. They act in the name of actual banking experts and offer false loans or advertise cryptocurrencies. Medical evidence. AI-fueled image generators are trained on a vast pool of radiology data to create CT scans or X-rays, which are then submitted to insurance agencies as medical evidence. Business documentation. Criminals with limited language skills use ChatGPT and various AI bots to target victims in other countries via grammatically flawless and thus convincing messages in phishing attempts and email scams. Obviously, combating AI-driven hoaxes is possible only with weapons of the same level. Let’s have a look at the technological advancements and AI fraud detection solutions insurance organizations can use to expose and prevent scams. Experiencing a lack of technical expertise and skills? Connect with a professional team to address your project challenges. Contact us AI for insurance fraud detection: Use cases scrutinized As a high-profile IT vendor specializing in insurance solutions , DICEUS considers the following know-how pivotal for fighting fraud with the help of artificial intelligence in insurance sector. Machine learning. ML algorithms are highly instrumental as a core of AI automation tools that reveal fraud patterns across historical data. Being trained on such data sets, machine learning mechanisms can recognize potential threats in the datasets fed into AI insurance fraud detection software for negative sentiment indicators in their reviews or social media posts. Predictive analytics . Thanks to this kind of artificial intelligence fraud detection, insurance companies can predict future fraud trends, pinpoint high-risk policyholders, and initiate proactive measures (adjust premiums, refuse coverage, etc.) aimed at scam prevention. Natural language processing. NLP mechanisms can help in fraud pattern identification in the spheres dependent on text analysis. They expose vocabulary and grammar irregularities in claims customers file or look for negative sentiment indicators in their reviews or social media posts. AI-powered engines. These excel at biometric authorization techniques (voice recognition, face or fingerprint scan) that are increasingly ousting passwords, OTPs, or other old-school security practices and enable AI fraud detection insurance solutions to prevent identity theft. All these cutting-edge technologies relying on artificial intelligence in insurance software can yield maximum effect if the anti-fraud product has proper functionalities to carry out its mission. fraud management techniques adopted by insurers Pinch and spread for zoom Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Must-have features of AI-powered fraud detection solutions for insurance While creating first-rate insurance fraud detection and prevention software , DICEUS prioritizes the following AI-fueled capabilities. Anomaly detection. Companies worldwide employ This primary mechanism in their fraud detection routine. Insurance companies can leverage this functionality to set up autoencoders and deep learning-based techniques to expose suspicious activities related to filing a claim, flag claims that deviate from the normal pattern (like those submitted too soon after the accident or those filled out quicker than a human can do), alert to claims with unusually high payouts, and more. Past data analysis. Graph neural networks (GNNs), long short-term memory (LSTM) networks, and similar instruments leveraging AI in insurance fraud detection are employed to sift through historic fraudulent claim attempts, reveal patterns in them (like repeated doctor’s name or phone number), pinpoint sequences of events that cause suspicion, and serve as insights for fraud monitoring policies a company adopts. Image analysis. This tool has a wide scope of applications for insurance fraud detection – from recording camera data that validates a person’s image authenticity to revealing various AI-created scams (for instance, doctored videos and photos). Risk profiling and assessment. Such a module is responsible for classifying data patterns according to the type of risk they are related to and generating a threat index for each claim where the pattern is spotted. Integration with third-party data sources. Insurers can have a comprehensive view of their customer only if they draw upon external data sources (EHR, social media, etc.) that can complete the picture where the client is a centerpiece. As you see, developing a high-quality anti-fraud product is a no-nonsense task that should be entrusted only to an IT vendor competent in AI implementation with multiple completed projects in the insurance realm under its belt. DICEUS ticks all these boxes. We can deliver a top-notch custom AI-powered insurance fraud solution of any size and complexity that will augment your scam detection and prevention power and minimize fraud-related losses your organization suffers from. Drawing a bottom line Artificial intelligence in insurance industry is making its triumphant advance into various shop floor aspects of this domain – from claim management and billing to insurance analytics and customer support. However, cybercriminals also exploit this technology to fool insurance agencies out of their money. Combating such attempts can be effective only if AI becomes the core of the digital transformation strategy in the field and the centerpiece of anti-fraud insurance software. NLP, ML, predictive analytics, and AI-fueled engines are highly instrumental in anomaly detection, image analysis, past data scrutiny, risk assessment, and more. The efficient implementation of insurance fraud detection and prevention solutions can be achieved by partnering with a seasoned IT vendor having in-depth expertise in the niche. FAQ What is artificial intelligence (AI) in the context of insurance fraud detection? It is a set of technologies and tools honed to forestall fraud attempts before they happen and expose them when they occur during claim handling workflow. Such instruments include machine learning, natural language processing, predictive analytics, AI-powered engines, and more. How does AI help in detecting insurance fraud? It powers an array of techniques that streamline and facilitate insurance fraud detection and prevention. The techniques focus on anomaly detection, historical data and image analysis, risk profiling and assessment, etc. What are the benefits of using AI for insurance fraud detection? Thanks to employing AI-driven insurtech software, agencies can quicker and more accurately identify fraud attempts, get real-time scam alerts and notifications, and act preemptively in fraud prevention. As a result, insurance companies cut down on financial losses caused by fraudulent activities and enhance their overall operational efficiency. What types of insurance fraud can AI detect? Its typical use cases are related to exposing regular fraud attempts, such as submitting a claim too soon after the accident, filling out documents too fast for a human, abnormally high payouts, etc. The most advanced AI-powered anti-fraud products can handle AI-driven fraud, for instance, voice cloning, deepfake videos and photos, fake medical evidence or business documentation, and more. How does AI leverage data to detect insurance fraud? There are two basic ways AI utilizes data for fraud detection and prevention. The first focuses on exposing suspicious data-set anomalies that can indicate fraud. The second aims to reveal patterns in input data about historical fraud attempts that allow it to pinpoint scam trends and use them for training ML algorithms for future fraud identification and prevention. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Challenges of insurers concerning fraud AI for insurance fraud detection: Use cases scrutinized Must-have features of AI-powered fraud detection solutions for insurance Drawing a bottom line FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles AI 5 min. read · 07 Feb 2024 25 Nov 2024 Insurance analytics and artificial intelligence AI 19 min. read · 27 Jun 2024 21 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence in banking: Role and impact for the industry AI 13 min. read · 27 Aug 2024 09 Apr 2025 Artificial intelligence in customer service: Main advantages and real examples Fintech 10 min. read · 23 Aug 2024 17 Feb 2025 Artificial intelligence in finance: Top advantages and use cases Healthcare 11 min. read · 22 Oct 2024 17 Feb 2025 Artificial intelligence in healthcare: Top advantages and use cases AI 9 min. read · 25 Oct 2024 22 Nov 2024 Data analytics and artificial intelligence: Essentials All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman