CRM system for norwegian software provider Services provided Custom software development Software support System integration Dedicated team Expertise used BI and reporting Cloud solutions Data warehouse and ETL Industry Telecommunications Project overview Nextcom Evolution CRM System is an all-in-one customer relationship platform. It optimizes sales through convenient customer cards overview, list management, meetings, integrated invoices, telephony, and predictive dialer. The CRM tool has extra sales modules and can be integrated with external solutions. For this project, we focus precisely on integrations. Client Nextcom Evolution AS Team 3 members Country Norway Duration Ongoing (4 years) Client information Nextcom Evolution AS was founded by Thomas Wolf and Steinar Talmoen. It’s a pioneer within Private Cloud CRMI systems (intelligent web-based customer management systems) tailored th the market needs. The company optimizes CRM processes and activities that leads to increased control, sales, and customer satisfaction. Business challenge As long as Nextcom is a relatively small company with a few in-house employees, it couldn’t handle all the dev tasks. The client team started building the CRM system independently. However, with the increase in the number of customers, Nextcom decided to partner with DICEUS. Initially, we helped with the integration tasks and then expanded our services with .NET development for CRM solutions. Technical challenges One of the core functionalities of Nextcom Evolution CRM is a two-way integration of a native product with SugarCRM. Both platforms are large, with over 1,200 information tables. Thus, our main task was to set this synchronous integration between the systems to ensure their stability and efficiency. Further, we had to tune more integrations between the native CRM and various external tools, including ERP. Mainly, the work was based on the .NET environment. Solution delivered Nowadays, Nextcom CRM is a powerful and universal solution. It optimizes customer experience, improves sales, and gathers essential data under one roof. The solution has a number of customizable modules that can be tailored according to the requirements of each client. This CRM provides industry-specific features, templates, lists, SMS, telephony, third-party connections. We’re helping Nextcom for more than seven years in a row. Mainly, we continue focusing on seamless integrations of the CRM product with end-user solutions. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Booking meetings Users can easily send invitations and appoint meetings using one tool. The meetings are automatically registered in Google Calendar or Outlook. Customer cards A unique overview of all customer details helps to always keep in touch with core data. Moreover, the system suggests the best follow-ups. Invoices You also can send automated invoices to all clients via this CRM. If needed, optical character recognition can be enabled. Telephony, emails, and SMS All communication channels are integrated directly. The history of each contact action is recorded and saved to cards. List management The tool supports manual and automated lists of both existing and potential customers. Segmentation and reporting features are available. Predictive dialer The system can call several clients at once and then redirect them to free operators. Thus, consultants save time and avoid rejected calls. Value to our client 2,000 people per day use the system Various Nextcom customers regularly use the CRM software integrated by our developers. Migration from monolith to REST API The outdated architecture wasn’t able to meet new requirements. Now, the solution has a REST architectural basement. Two-way integration with Office 365 and Google calendars We integrated convenient calendars by Google and Office 365 for better CRM experience. Our tech stack .NET/ASP.NET SQL HTML REST API Client feedback DICEUS learns and performs processes well. Their work is reliable. The developers understand our requirements very well, so we can assign them documentation directly. They know our system, and can develop what we need. And they can handle complicated tasks without needing much direction, if any. Steinar Talmoen Co-Founder at Nextcom Evolution Our other cases Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Software product BI upgrade for ApexSQL Software product SSAS loader upgrade for ApexSQL Software product SourceControl upgrade + Git integration for ApexSQL Software product Always on support feature integration for ApexSQL Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman