Telemedicine app development services DICEUS offers a full range of telemedicine app development services focused on the creation of unique, sturdy software applications for the healthcare segment. Custom telemedicine platforms, management systems, and dedicated tools we build help reinforce the connection with patients, improve the patient care process and remote patient monitoring, and help users stay in touch with medical facilities. Talk to our expert Our telemedicine app development services Telemedicine mobile apps A telemedicine mobile application of your own can serve as a great, highly-demand product for sale for hospitals and medical facilities. Or it can become a perfect extension of your existing healthcare services workflow. A dedicated app simplifies almost all aspects of remote communication and patient interaction while also granting in-depth patient monitoring and alerting abilities. A telemedicine app helps patients in any condition stay in touch with their doctor at all times while instantly getting insights into their diagnostics and treatment progress. Electronic Medical Records EMR or Electronic Medical Records implementation helps optimize the paramount processes of storing, organizing, and managing important employee, administration, and facility data. This approach enables convenient centralization and immediate access to the required records via multiple user rights levels. EMR systems and applications grant firm reliability and safety of record storage. At DICEUS, we can develop a custom or integrated solution that will give you versatile interactive medical records storage and management capacities free of manual routines. Electronic Health Records EHR, or electronic health records, is an EMR counterpart type of system that deals with patient data assets, including administrative/registration data, clinical records, personal history, etc. A proper dedicated EHR application helps avoid unnecessary paperwork routines, store all the records more reliably in a digital format, access any required information immediately via a centralized database, and easily share the critical data between doctors and management for joint treatment and diagnostics purposes. All this and more comes with a single telehealth app. Clinical management systems Managing healthcare is an effort-intense, complex process on its own, considering multiple departments within a single healthcare facility that require thorough monitoring, management, and collaboration opportunities. Then, there are all the files and patient management routines. We can combine EMR, EHR, and specific management capabilities in a single telemedicine app development solution. For this, we can create a fully or partially custom system with powers based on your specific workflow’s most relevant managerial aspects. Doctor’s appointments online Telemedicine app development solutions enable fast and accessible online appointment scheduling. We create highly intuitive interfaces for quick and to-the-point booking, scheduling, and cancellation of appointments. We offer a range of customized appointment functionality options, including online appointments with secure, HIPAA-compliant processing of patient data and tech-boosted in-person meetings. Personalized notifications and reminder features will help you ensure your patients never miss a consultation. Chatbot development At DICEUS, we develop and design advanced customer support chatbots. This telemedicine software solution will help patients stay in contact with healthcare providers at all times, get answers to general questions, and receive support on a round-the-clock schedule. AI-powered chatbots we build analyze patient data to provide rapid, accurate, and insightful human-like responses to incoming queries. Smart chatbot support improves the telemedicine patient experience with instant access to vital information and functionality tailored to the specifics of your company and business requirements. Chat with a doctor Pinch and spread for zoom Let’s discuss your project requirements! Send request Benefits of our telehealth app development services Feature-rich solutions With a custom approach, we can pinpoint the abilities, tools, and features you need for your particular workflow and implement as many of them as your application reasonably fits. We also work based on detailed requirements and market niche specifics, but we can develop a multipurpose healthcare management platform with various features that tackle various workflow aspects. Quick API integration With years of field development experience under our belts, we can also help you rapidly deploy and connect your healthcare solution with other software and necessary gateways or plugins. Thus, we can quickly integrate the required API(s), be it to connect to the existing system, enhance system capabilities with third-party plugins and services, expand software accessibility, or more. Customized UI/UX The structure and performance of the user interface, coupled with the overall level of user experience, make up a huge essential chunk of the solution’s convenience and overall success among users. We can fill your telemedicine app’s UI/UX with custom elements that emphasize a specific approach to handling healthcare services, with every aspect done based on best market practices. Complete security We guarantee the full security and transparency of all processes during our collaboration and project completion. We provide well-tried-and-tested expertise. Our pool of specialists consists of reliable professionals, most of whom have proper certificates. We are ready and willing to seal all deals with proper agreements and contracts, and we have a rich history of past projects. Our telehealth app development process Analysis The initial stage of any project is a thorough analysis of requirements, client’s business niche and operation specifics, related market environment, direct and indirect competitors’ workflows and products, etc. The proper analysis helps our telemedicine app developers lay the smoothest possible ground for all further processes. At this point, we also gather and discuss all the client requirements, specifications, goals, needs, and desires. Having the complete vision of the project in line with the client’s opinions and expectations is paramount to granting top quality. Development With all the preliminary discussions, research, and analysis well-structured and out of the way, we set off the following in-depth technical part of project completion. This requires the most intense effort and expert input from our specialists as we build the backend and front end, integrate required features like video conferencing and EHR systems, and implement secure messaging. UI/UX design During the development phase, we outline and create the product’s design carcass based on the most relevant UI/UX trends and fill it with the required functionality. Depending on the project, we may hardcode tools, features, and interactive elements from scratch or integrate readymade aspects. QA and testing Just in time to wrap up all the primary project implementation efforts, including the preparation, design, and development of the whole solution, we set off through the quality assurance and testing phases. These help us polish and finalize the product to launch an all-around perfectly functioning solution. This is where we combine multiple QA approaches as well as manual and automated testing methods to identify and fix any possible errors and flaws before sending the finished solution into the release phase. Deployment At DICEUS, we provide full-cycle product development services, which include software deployment as the project finalization stage. This means that we don’t drop the software product we create right after it goes through all the common stages of development. We also help you deploy it properly in the required operational environment. Our specialists will deploy the software according to the specifics of the target environment and mend all the holes that can potentially appear in the process. This stage grants perfect post-release performance. What impacts your project duration The total duration of every other project depends heavily on the underlying specifics and scope of the workflow. We have the expertise it takes to provide telemedicine app development services quite rapidly. But here are the main factors influencing the duration of your project. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs The final cost of your end product depends on multiple deciding factors. We can help you achieve the most optimal pricing ratio based on your needs. Keep in mind that the following aspects mostly form the pricing. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We take full responsibility for every stage of the process. Our specialists have enough experience and are savvy in initiating and finalizing major project workflow stages. However, you can help us achieve the best results by providing the following input in a timely manner. Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our tech stack About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Why choose DICEUS for telemedicine app development? DICEUS can offer you a comprehensive list of cooperation benefits: High-class expertise in app creation for the healthcare industry . We have faced various cases and experienced the most advanced technological solutions for the healthcare segment. Custom application development with features tailored to your company . We adjust telehealth software based on your company’s internal demands and your users’ needs to create an all-covering telemedicine app. Advanced scalable solutions prepared for growth . We develop applications that are inherently prepared for future scaling and adaptation to a much wider audience of existing and potential users. We are a full-cycle development team . We wil l lead your project from the first meeting until its successful deployment, consulting, managing, and supporting it where needed. Experts who work closely with the latest technology trends . Our tech stack speaks for us, and our deep knowledge of advanced technology allows us to offer the most effective solutions with feature-rich content. Client-centric solutions . We create handy telemedicine solutions oriented to client’s needs, eliminating everyday pains, saving tons of time and headache, and preventing mistreatment. Reliable partner with time-proven results and a list of satisfied customers . Our case studies demonstrate the diversity of our expertise and the number of clients who enjoyed the fruits of our cooperation. Which organizations gain from developing custom telemedicine apps? Telemedicine applications can be handy and effective for such organizations as: Healthcare providers Insurance companies Clinics SaaS companies Pharmaceutical companies Medical manufacturers The advanced all-covering functionality of telemedicine apps makes them useful for both company representatives and patients. We customize applications depending on the company’s sphere of business to cover the requirements of the professional field. For instance, online appointment functionality would be especially useful for remote healthcare providers and clinics. Insurance and pharmaceutical companies may prefer to focus on chatbot options. Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions Do you provide software integration services for existing apps? DICEUS has an extensive pool of profiled specialists that provide a wide range of software development, optimization, customization, and enhancement services. If you already have an existing telehealth application that requires further expansion of features and capabilities, we can dedicate our expertise to properly scaling it with the help of proper integrations and configurations. What features can be developed for a telemedicine app? A telemedicine application can have a varying scope of features depending on the particular needs and requirements of a healthcare provider. It can be a basic app dedicated to a certain field of tasks like healthcare facility employee management or an extensive telehealth platform with multiple user access levels, specialized dashboards, interaction and communication tools, and any other integrations the client may wish to see in the end product. How long does it take to develop a telemedicine app? The terms of completion of a telemedicine application strictly depend on a range of product specifics, including client requirements, scope of features, technical complexity, etc. DICEUS is a telemedicine app development company that offers streamlined project performance, but we can say for sure that creating solutions for the field as complex and responsible as healthcare may take more time than a regular eCommerce or office management app would take. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman