Insurance app development services DICEUS builds custom mobile apps for insurance, following the latest CX trends, carrier’s goals and needs. Since 2011, we have delivered more than 20 bespoke solutions for leading insurance and brokerage companies such as UNIQA, Fadata, BriteCore, BenefitNet, WTW, and others. Estimate project Send requirements Customer needs, constantly changing because of the appearance of new trends and ubiquitous digitalization, facilitate carriers’ use of insurance app development services more often than ever. One of the reasons is retaining customers with more personalized user experiences, convenient self-service capabilities, and faster customer support and service. By implementing a bespoke app, insurers can enhance operational efficiency, optimize costs, increase revenue, and improve customer loyalty. Here at DICEUS, we offer custom insurance mobile app development, including CX strategy, architecture, UI/UX design, and maintenance. Our custom insurance mobile app development services Our services are aimed at bridging technology gaps for insurance companies by delivering effective digital ways of customer engagement. Mobile apps are one of the best means to provide better and quicker services for policyholders. These solutions can fully automate the claim management processes, from claim submission to its settlement. CX strategy Customer experience plays a vital role in creating a mobile insurance platform. Our CX specialists identify current customer complaints and pain points by conducting interviews. Based on the findings, they create user persona descriptions and provide recommendations on what should be optimized, and which features are a must and nice to add. Mobile/web app architecture Before development, our architects consider all the structural elements and layers of a future app, including the tech stack, business workflows, and both functional and non-functional requirements. Creating the right architecture from the very start of the project means eliminating unnecessary expenses, changes, and risks. UI/UX design User-friendly interfaces and seamless customer experience are what we pay special attention to when creating mobile apps for insurance. Our designers follow the latest mobile design and CX trends to deliver a customer-facing app. Development We adhere to Agile project management methodology to deliver products faster and according to the scope. Each iteration (sprint) lasts 2-4 weeks, which allows us to release the product’s functionality and demonstrate demos for clients and get valuable feedback from them. Testing and QA DICEUS is committed to delivering high-quality mobile apps; that’s why our test engineers perform various manual and automated tests to identify any bugs that need to be fixed. Support and maintenance Our team offers various support options after the app is launched, as well as maintenance services in case any additional features or upgrades are needed. These services are usually provided by the team members who developed the app. Want to discuss your project? Contact us Types of insurance app development solutions we offer With a deep understanding of the trends, challenges, and needs of the insurance sector, we at DICEUS develop custom insurance applications that meet the specific requirements of various target companies. Customer-facing apps These applications include mobile and web apps that ensure effective communication between insurance carriers and policyholders. They usually provide customers with a lot of useful features allowing the latter to buy policies online, file claims, track claim statuses, make payments, and more. Agent and broker apps Solutions for agents and brokers are developed for better lead management, quoting, policy tracking, etc. These applications ensure efficient insurer-agent or insurer-broker interaction in one system. Underwriting apps and risk assessment tools Our team offers tailor-made solutions along with our ready-made AI-powered Underwriting Workbench with intelligent decision support. Claims management apps These apps streamline and automate the entire claims lifecycle—from First Notice of Loss (FNOL) to final settlement—enhancing transparency and reducing processing time. We offer custom-developed solutions and a ready-made claim management module as a part of our Insurance Core Suite. Most popular features Policy management Claim management Document management Quote generation Self-service for customers Customer support Our ready-made mobile app for insurance businesses For organizations that don’t want to spend much time on bespoke solution development, we offer our SuperApp, which can support various types of insurance, including health, life, unit-linked, travel, and car insurance, among others. These mobile apps serve as an alternative to costly custom applications, allowing for faster implementation: Health insurance app Life insurance and unit-linked products app Car insurance app More solutions from DICEUS Want to see how our app for insurance works? Schedule a call with our team! Book a demo Benefits of our insurance mobile application development services Predictable budget Years of professional operation in the market guarantees one thing for sure — we certainly know how to do what we do in the most optimal way possible. For one thing, we know how to optimize your project budget, not make you go bankrupt, and cut unnecessary costs wherever possible. We automatically help you save costs by eliminating the most common risks and pitfalls right away thanks to our vast experience. Project roadmap In terms of insurance app development with DICEUS, we can offer you a number of fitting project roadmaps from the get-go. Every project is unique, but we can use the best practices figured out based on the active performance in the field. Thus, we can select a well-tried-and-tested workflow based on an elaborated collaboration model and adjust it based on your particular business needs. Flexible cooperation We know how critical it is to establish smooth, effective collaboration and properly involve the client in the project workflow. The client’s big vision of the project defines the expectations we set out to exceed with our professional effort. For this, we offer a range of flexible cooperation models that we can customize individually to achieve the most convenient, time-, and cost-efficient project conditions for you. Insurance experience In an industry as specific and complex as insurance, it is crucial to understand all the moving parts and nuances. Thus, that’s why we have a separate department of insurance-focused IT professionals savvy in software solutions that fit this field of operation best. Treating it as an individual aspect, we characterize our insurance digitization services with a high emphasis on security and UI intuitiveness. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 8 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our insurance app development process Requirements gathering The initial discovery and preliminary research phases are crucial to setting up and setting off a project that will result in what you need without any “surprises” along the way. At this “project kick-off” stage, we meet the client, discuss their general project vision, gather and formalize requirements, outline the main project milestones, and conduct thorough business, market, and competitor studies. This scrupulous approach allows us to achieve high-quality outcomes at the most optimal budgeting. Design and development Once we have the further project workflow well figured out, structured, and scheduled, we go on to initiate the technical phases of the project. If we are talking about insurance mobile app development, this usually starts with designing the basic software architecture with the outline of navigation and other essential UI elements. The basic architecture carcass is then passed on to software developers and engineers who hardcode and integrate features and add all sorts of functionality bits and parts to it. QA and testing Even with the most flawless project workflow and qualified approach, any type of software is prone to bugs. And a lot of them appear only at certain later stages of projects or even at post-release stages. This is why we polish up every project during thorough QA and testing phases. The combination of manual and automated testing approaches helps get rid of the essential part of serious software issues. Bunched up with separate quality assurance efforts, we deliver reliable software. Deployment and launch To further guarantee the highest quality of the end product, we don’t drop projects after the final release and testing/QA stages. In particular, we can help you properly deploy the created software in the required operating environment and organize the impactful launch. Providing all-around maintenance and support along the way, we will introduce your product to the market with a bang and help you keep in line with the major software distribution guidelines and global regulations. Get professional consulting on insurance app development Send request Why choose DICEUS for insurance app development? 15 years of industry focus. Our core business specializes in ready-made software for insurance companies, brokers, MGAs, and TPAs. We understand how insurance organizations operate, the challenges they face, and how to assist them with innovative technology solutions. Custom solutions for leading insurers and brokers. We have already developed many bespoke apps for companies such as UNIQA, VIG, BriteCore, WTW, and others, which has helped us gain robust expertise in this area. Dedicated insurance IT team. We have a team of experts dedicated exclusively to insurance app development projects. What impacts your project duration The timeline for developing an insurance app depends on its complexity, features, and integration requirements. On average, a basic MVP can take 3–4 months, while a full-featured app may require 6–9 months or more. There are numerous minor and major factors that define the total duration of your project. We do all we can to accelerate processes without sacrificing their quality. But here’s what predefines your project duration in particular: Project requirements got as a result of in-depth business analysis Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Change requests As you can see, the duration will depend on how well you follow the recommendations provided by our experts based on the findings from the discovery phase. What affects your project costs It’s not easy to calculate the total budget at the early stages of the project. Only approximate numbers can be worked out, and we know how to minimize those. Here’s what affects the total cost in the long run: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Urgency Engagement model Requirements’ accuracy What we need from your side As a qualified provider, we handle all aspects of the project workflow cycle. However, the client’s or project owner’s involvement is necessary for the best results. You can help us achieve them by providing the following input: Project goals, vision, and roadmap High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if any Client’s availability Our achievements Our tech stack Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Frequently asked questions What features are the most popular for insurance apps? Insurance software solutions have several essential features, tools, and capabilities. The most in-demand features include claim filing and managing opportunities, paperwork management tools, digital signature capabilities, insurance policy review features, push notifications, and convenient, statistics-driven dashboards. Do you have experience in custom software development for the insurance industry? DICEUS is a well-established insurance app development company with over 15 years of experience in creating custom software solutions. We have a great pool of skilled software specialists who are savvy in delivering custom solutions tailored to specific business needs and market goals. Can you help us choose the right tech stack for our project? To share our knowledge and experience and help other teams advance their insurance software development expertise, we provide in-depth professional consulting services. Our team can help you determine the specifics of a successful insurance software project, as well as select the most suitable tech stack. What platforms can you develop insurance apps for? We build native apps for iOS and Android, as well as cross-platform solutions using frameworks such as React Native and Flutter, tailored to your business goals, target audience, and budget. Can your apps integrate with our existing insurance software? Yes, our apps can seamlessly integrate with core systems, including policy administration, CRM, billing, and claims processing software. We ensure smooth data exchange and interoperability through APIs and secure middleware solutions. Do you offer post-launch support and maintenance? Absolutely. We provide continuous support, including bug fixes, performance optimizations, security updates, and the addition of new features tailored to your evolving needs. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman