Hospital management software development services DICEUS provides custom hospital management software development services for healthcare providers, including hospitals and clinics. We also deliver professional IT consulting, staff augmentation, and business analysis services for healthcare. Discuss my project Modern multi-specialty healthcare organizations that aim to provide top-notch services can’t rely on disparate collections of IT products in their hospital workflows. The only opportunity for them to guarantee excellent patient outcomes and stay ahead of the technological curve is to onboard comprehensive hospital management systems. These all-embracing solutions enable healthcare professionals to streamline and facilitate a broad range of shop floor activities and healthcare operations within a clinic, from scheduling patient appointments to inventory management. What we offer Our best-in-class hospital management system development services empower medical facilities to manage, track, and optimize administrative and financial processes, data management pipeline, and other hospital operations by leveraging the robust capabilities we build. Hospital and clinic information (HIS/CIS) Hospital/clinic information systems can be developed with a modular structure to collect and process various data from different departments. HIS acts as an integrator capable of facilitating hospital operations management. HIS covers two datasets: patient care information and hospital staff management information. Patient treatment, hospital facilities, administrative issues, customer support, and human resources all run under the strategic management provided by HIS. Hospital information systems provide the most comprehensive outlook of hospital activities enhanced by digital technologies. Electronic records (EHR/EMR) Electronic health records have long become a must-have element of modern healthcare practice. EHR is as indispensable for hospitals as CRM is for any commercial project today. Healthcare organizations use EHR to collect and store patient information, starting from patient demographics and ending up with their medical history. EHR can be created as a standalone software product or an integral part of a more comprehensive hospital management system. EHR can include individual modules for patients through which they can perform many treatment-related activities such as paying for healthcare services, checking recovery progress, and finding medication prescriptions. EMR (electronic medical records) is a subtype of EHR dedicated to the narrower specific data such as dosage, procedures, bedside notes, etc. Practice management (PMS) Practice management software is another type of healthcare-related program we develop. PMS can be designed individually to meet the specific needs of a particular medical institution. As a highly customized sort of medical software, PMS can include such modules as e-prescribing sections, telemedicine features, automated scheduling, remote treatment support, and many more. Medical practices may vary very much, but our engineers are experienced enough to be agile in meeting the individual needs of different healthcare organizations. We create custom PMS to assist doctors and hospitals in making their specific practices easily manageable with user-friendly software products. System architecture and integration We support modular architectures when software is designed to be either an integral part of a more comprehensive program or a standalone software product. We never seek to monopolize the entire infrastructure of our customers. On the contrary, our deep expertise in healthcare software development allows our engineers to create easily integrable modules for already existing systems. Neither the scope nor complexity can prevent our developers from building fully-fledged software architectures for all types of healthcare organizations. Our wide previous experience in healthcare software development makes us equally confident in creating, for example, a new embeddable payment gateway for an existing HIS as well as in building holistic all-in-one ecosystems for clinics and hospitals. Hospital case management software This is the centerpiece of a patient-centric model harnessed by the healthcare sector. It covers the entire patient experience within a healthcare facility, including online appointment scheduling, incoming patient registration, assigning rooms and beds, monitoring diagnosing and treatment outcomes, tracking billing, insurance, and payments, and more. The operational efficiency of such hospital management solutions is ensured via their integration with a comprehensive profile-based system of patient records storage operated through a custom interface registry. This user-friendly dashboard allows healthcare providers to enhance patient care thanks to its ability to manage and coordinate hospital admissions, discharges, and readmissions, control treatment plan efficiency, and improve department transfer. Healthcare reporting software With this type of hospital management software solution in place, you can address all the informational needs of your hospital without the help of a professional analyst or comprehensive training programs to teach personnel how to handle them. Integrated into your hospital systems, they enable visual data analysis and streamline building reports that are refreshable in real-time. They contain critical efficiency parameters such as patient satisfaction, bed occupancy, staff per patient, cost per patient, etc. With such clinical data insights, you can identify hospital performance bottlenecks, efficiently manage hospital processes and healthcare costs, and provide high-quality patient care. hospital management software development 1 Pinch and spread for zoom hospital management software development 2 Pinch and spread for zoom Let’s discuss your requirements to a hospital management system. Send your requirements and we’ll get back soon to you. Send requirements Essential features of hospital management software As vetted hospital management software developers, we at DICEUS know what modules such healthcare solutions should include. Electronic medical records (EMR) management EMR is the modern IT-powered healthcare industry’s backbone, serving as a consolidated healthcare data hub. Integrating it with other healthcare systems leveraged by hospitals in their pipeline activities, medical personnel obtain a 360-degree view of patients via having access to their medical histories, visits, doctor’s notes, test results, medication prescriptions, vaccines, etc. Laboratory management It allows clinics to standardize testing workflows. Using this capability, you can quickly enter patient data and test results, perform sample tracking, control reagents and lots, monitor validation of results, and generate transparent reports. Thus, the obtained test data is collected, sorted, categorized, and amplified with additional patient information, if necessary. Patient management When synchronized with patient portals and EMR, this capability paves the way for efficient visit scheduling, patient onboarding and discharge tracking, and automating communication between doctors and patients. Moreover, the system sends reminders, alerts, and follow-ups to improve patient engagement and augment patient safety. You can reinforce this feature with an out-patient management module that will assist in planning regular home visits and performing remote counseling. Inventory management software For any healthcare facility, the sufficient level of medical supplies to meet patient demand is a life-and-death issue. This module allows administrative staff to keep track of hospital resources, manage orders, streamline medication prescriptions, predict purchases, and optimize resource allocation, making sure you never run out of medical stocks. Financial management Modern clinics are complex business enterprises whose financial health depends on many factors. Equipping your healthcare management software with this capability will dramatically facilitate your revenue management, billing, expense tracking, budget planning, and other money-related workflows. Patient payments can be effectively managed via hospital contract management software that often comes as a part of financial management solutions. Insurance management It is called to enhance health insurance portability. When healthcare providers can quickly retrieve a patient’s policy number, policy information, insurance company, and other important insurance details, the process of filing and processing claims is significantly accelerated. As a result, insurance eligibility verification is performed within seconds, the patient’s insurance coverage is confirmed as fast, and reimbursements are obtained without delay. Data analytics and reporting This module relies on AI-driven models to process huge amounts of patient, medical, and hospital data. Such a power allows it to assess personnel efficiency, identify performance gaps, and provide meaningful insight for decision-makers who can utilize them for strategic planning and project management. Reports that the system generates are presented in an easy-to-understand format with a reliance on data visualization techniques. Nurse station Efficient nurse performance is vital for high-quality medical care delivery. This capability is honed for assisting nurses in their daily routines, enabling them to improve patient monitoring and assessment, shift planning, drug access controls, document handling, and more. Hospital mobile apps The ubiquity of smartphones has made the mobile experience of both patients and healthcare employees a must. By launching a user-friendly mobile app and turning it into a staple of a hospital’s life cycle, medical facilities increase their audience, step up their interaction with patients, and improve treatment efficiency. Benefits of our hospital management software development services Vast engineering experience Big words remain hollow rhetoric without being backed up by the finished software solutions that the satisfied clients sincerely appreciate. We proudly share our portfolio to demonstrate the vast engineering experience we have gained. Nothing better says about our software development capabilities than the grateful feedback we regularly receive from our customers. The variety of healthcare software solutions DICEUS has already created for clients from different sectors debunks any suspected limit that our engineers can face regarding one or another software technology. The only thing we require from our potential customers is just their ideas on the solutions they need. Vast engineering experience provides DICEUS developers doing all the rest to let the ideas come true. Healthcare solutions expertise Medical specifics can erect a particular knowledge barrier for software developers who stay far from the healthcare sector. This is not so for DICEUS, however. The available deep expertise in healthcare software development allows our engineers to grasp those medical nuances that many of our rivals have never heard about. Hospital workflows imply special solutions, which, in turn, may require unconventional software development approaches. It is crucial to understand what doctors and hospital managers talk about not to turn the development process into an endless mess. DICEUS engineers are not doctors, of course, but long-term collaboration with clients from the healthcare sector allows us to think like medical staff when developing hospital management software. This is about our healthcare solutions expertise that matters. Organized project management Whatever functionality one or another healthcare solution might imply, continuous communication with the end customer is crucial not to confuse wishful thinking with the actual user needs. However, software architects have enough to do besides talking to customers. This is why we rely on our talented project managers. Their strategic thinking helps the entire development lifecycle be as consistent as efficient. What’s more, we would never have finished so many successful healthcare projects unless our project management has been really well-organized. This is about time-saving routines with no redundant iterations when project managers act as vibrant links between developers and customers. The most extraordinary projects become easily manageable if perceptive communicators keep customer expectations under the radar. Flexible cooperation Each project is individual in software development: there are no serial products there. That’s why flexibility is what helps software developers stay afloat. DICEUS appreciates every minute that our customers invest in cooperation with us. This applies equally to both project managers who coordinate communication between customers and developers over each development lifecycle and customer support specialists who provide 24/7 assistance when healthcare software solutions are deployed. We are always keen to aggregate any user experience of our clients to be as flexible as possible in meeting customer expectations. DICEUS believes that true cooperation has no time limit: if you once order healthcare software from us, you will always remain our partner no matter how long ago your project has been finished. Our hospital management system development process Business analysis No standard one-fits-all solutions are available in hospital management software development. Even though the critical types of healthcare software are widely known, there are too many individual features to be considered in every particular use case. They become apparent with a meticulous business analysis to be performed before programmers put their fingers on keyboards. Our development team, project managers, and customers all participate equally. The analysis covers just business issues due to a couple of reasons: 1) purely technical questions regarding the development technologies to be used for achieving the superb usability of the finished product remain for DICEUS, not for customers; 2) the ongoing healthcare-as-a-service paradigm requires business-like approaches to satisfy both doctors and patients. Look before you leap, as they say. UI/UX design At the UX design stage, our experts study the prospective users, come up with a list of scenarios for different user roles (doctors, administrators, nurses, lab personnel, patients), determine a user journey map, create a storyboard to visualize it, and build a prototype being guided by two general principles of user-centric design: intuitiveness and simplicity of navigation. Then, the design team focuses on the user interface. They develop all UI elements users interact with (buttons, checkboxes, search bars, tags, icons, sliders, text fields, toggle switches, and the like), ensuring they are consistent, platform-compatible, accessible, easy-to-read, responsive, and have optimal performance. By adhering to these UI/UX design fundamentals, we reduce the learning curve for future users. Development After all the tiniest project nuances are analyzed to avoid misunderstanding between developers and customers, the intensive programming workflows start running along the development lifecycle. DICEUS uses various development lifecycle methods (Waterfall, Agile, Iterative, V-shaped, etc.) depending on the particular features of each healthcare software product. Similar development processes are hardly applicable to such products as, for instance, an e-prescribing mobile app and a compute-intensive MRI imaging solution. Whatever lifecycle method is selected, however, the process starts from a designing stage based on the SDS (software design specification) created by both architects and managers as a result of the business analysis. Customers can be involved in the process, especially when an iterative development method is practiced. Testing and QA Nobody is perfect, and software engineers are no exception. The more complicated the healthcare solution is, the more frequently the tests have to be performed over the development lifecycle. Quality assurance goes far beyond testing just-ready healthcare software. It begins before coding starts and lasts after the finished product is released. DICEUS never ignores QA planning and always makes records of every test. This helps us follow the so-called test-driven development, one of the main principles of such an agile method as extreme programming. When some changes in software functionality are desired, our programmers write tests for their code. Since we prefer frequent releases in short cycles, the highest code quality is usually achieved through time-saving workflows. Deployment support We are trying to provide full operability with all our healthcare software. At the same time, we would like to track progress and manage changes in our deployments. This is why DICEUS appreciates CI/CD (continuous integration/continuous deployment) techniques. In addition to getting fresh ideas about our healthcare software, we have some other reasons for using CI/CD. First, we would like to provide our customers with seamless updates. Second, we strive to optimize the efficiency of our deployments through valuable metrics and timeline indicators, allowing us to deliver better healthcare software products in less time. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Why choose DICEUS for hospital management software development The contemporary outsourcing market is full of vendors offering their IT services to organizations across the globe. What makes us sure DICEUS is the best choice for creating hospital management solutions? Long presence in the niche. We have provided outsourced high-tech development services for more than 13 years, during which our specialists accumulated vast knowledge and numerous hands-on skills related to handling projects in the realm of healthcare. We have 250+ full-time experts onboard. Our qualified and certified developers, who constantly improve their competencies, can tackle the end-to-end creation of hospital management software— from the discovery phase and planning to UI/UX design, coding, testing, and deployment. Compliant solutions. Healthcare IT products have stringent compliance requirements concerning data security. The hospital management products we build adhere to HIPAA, GDPR, CCPA, and other industry regulations. Client-centered approach. We meet our partners halfway concerning various aspects of our cooperation, adapting to their communication style and interaction schedules no matter how significant the time zone difference may be. Get professional consulting on your project! Book a call What impacts your project duration The timeframe of every particular project is individual, especially when it comes to healthcare software. Many critical factors should be considered to define a more or less exact duration of the entire development process. In any case, our specialists will do their best to deliver your healthcare software in the shortest possible period without compromising the quality. The following factors can impact your project duration, among other things: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs In general, the number of working hours of various specialists engaged in the healthcare software development process determines the cost of a finished product since an hourly rate is the most typical job evaluation method in software development. Hence, the final cost of your project will depend on the time we have to spend to complete your project from A to Z. The following factors can determine your project’s budget: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side It is rare to get a clear SDS (software design specification) from a customer: quite specific data should be indicated there. That’s why we always propose to arrange an online meeting during which our engineers and project managers can ask customers about all the nuances they should know regarding the healthcare software product to be developed. Please provide us with this info to simplify our task: Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available Client’s availability for weekly gathering sessions Which organizations gain from developing custom hospital management software When developed and implemented by a qualified vendor, hospital management systems bring positive changes to various workflows of multiple agents in the healthcare market. Hospitals These are the principal healthcare organizations and primary users of hospital management software. Such professional solutions can revolutionize the entire scope of their pipeline activities – from centralizing administrative control and optimizing resource utilization to enhancing patient care and streamlining insurance policy processing. Clinics These are smaller than hospitals and offer a narrower range of services. Since their chief focus is preventative care, hospital management software brings clinics the most value in laboratory and EMR management as well as in providing tools for delivering patient support services. Nursing care facilities Such organizations embrace convalescent homes, residential care facilities, rehabs, halfway houses, and other establishments that focus on providing nursing care without offering hospital services. In them, hospital management systems excel at staff management, supply management, and nursing station administration. Ambulatory centers This umbrella term covers out-patient care facilities, diagnostic laboratories, mental health and substance abuse institutions, organ and blood banks, etc. They can rely on hospital management systems for financial management, patient onboarding facilitation, admission and readmission improvement, laboratory management, and more. Hospices Their major goal is to provide high-quality end-of-life care for people with advanced and end-stage illnesses. Supply management and patient management, as well as staying in touch with the patients’ families via the mobile app, are chief areas where hospital management software can help hospices. Birth centers These facilities aim to offer women a comfortable birth environment. Hospital management software can be a great crutch in supply management, laboratory management, support management, and nursing station organization. Our tech stack Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions Can you prove your hospital management software expertise? Seeing is believing, right? Please visit the healthcare software section of our portfolio to check the healthcare software solutions we have already created. There, you can find brief descriptions of the projects covering both the challenges we have faced and the solutions we have developed. All of the use cases include no virtual prototypes, and only those healthcare software products that have been launched successfully are shown. You can also find our customers’ feedback there. How do you differ from the others in terms of healthcare software? There are two types of software development companies: highly specialized ones that create a specific type of software only and multi-service companies that take whatever order is available. The first ones are usually limited by quite a narrow set of approaches and technologies they consider the most relevant to their sector. The second ones can rarely achieve profound expertise in healthcare software development due to their omnivorous business strategy in contrast to both types. We know exactly what functionality healthcare software requires, while our rich healthcare software development expertise shows us multiple ways to achieve functionality. Do you provide IT consulting and software architecture services? Both IT consulting and software architecture services are essential elements of our activity. We always seek to share our knowledge with anyone who needs it. All our specialists are sincere advocates of the broadest possible IT literacy. We consult our customers “on the go” for free when they participate in the development process. Standalone IT consulting and software architecture services are also available even if no software product is ordered to develop. Similar industry EHR and EMR Telemedicine app development Telemedicine software Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman