AI integration services DICEUS offers a wide range of AI integration services, from AI consulting to custom AI solutions, tailored to your business needs. A deep understanding of the technology and client’s requirements is our key to AI projects that power long-term business growth. Discuss my project Advantages of AI integration for business Artificial intelligence enables innovative solutions that help boost and optimize working processes. Generative AI systems may be especially efficient when content creation is essential. Every industry has special requirements and use cases for AI implementation. However, no matter your field of operation, you can get a competitive advantage by leveraging the following benefits: AI-powered efficiency Common inefficient points in business workflows include repetitive tasks performed manually, which are incredibly time-consuming, and the human factor that is often the source of potential errors. AI can help avoid these issues with one ultimate solution—task automation. AI integration speeds up routine processes, handles customer queries 24/7, and keeps employees and customers eager and satisfied. We build custom chatbots widely used in insurance, healthcare, finance, and other fields, ensuring instant and accurate responses to common queries. Informed decision-making Artificial intelligence analyzes large datasets to provide actionable insights. This allows specialists to inspect and predict market trends and customer behavior. This approach can be the basis for in-depth, informed business decisions. Data-driven insights are a good foundation for development strategies or marketing campaigns. Personalized approach AI powers behavior and preference analysis to identify the spheres of user attention. A customized AI tailors the experience to individual users by recommending products of interest and shaping unique user journeys. It generates special offers based on past purchases and interactions. An AI-powered, engaging, and personalized approach builds long-term improved customer satisfaction. Cost savings Automated processes and improved efficiency help figure out workflow resources better and set up intelligent resource allocation. In the long run, you get to cut down on operational costs and labor expenses. With less routine procedure engagement for your staff, your specialists can pay more attention to core business and tech matters, reaching more customers within the working day and raising productivity. Want to improve your business operations with AI? Let’s talk about how we can help you! Send requirements Our services Custom AI solutions Tailored generative AI solutions that we build allow us to tackle non-standard business requirements, kick off innovative projects, and set sturdy, intelligent foundations for cost-efficient workflows. The goal of our projects is to fully cover the needs of your company with an efficient AI approach. NLP integration Natural Language Processing (NLP) enables applications to detect, understand, and interact with human language and process live-speech queries. This integration is essential for launching advanced customer-centric chatbots and sentiment analysis solutions. Computer vision We help enable machines and software to interpret visual data, recognize various images, and detect separate objects within them. This AI capability offers new possibilities for performing visual-based processes that run and interact with any type of visual information. Speech recognition Voice recognition is vital for visual assistants, customer service, and transcription apps. It teaches the system to understand human speech and provide relevant reactions. Comes in especially relevant for today’s streaming platforms. RPA Robotic Process Automation is represented by AI-powered robots that can automate workflows from any required angle. You can easily automate and streamline a large number of custom routine tasks, raising workflow productivity to a new level. AI consulting We offer expert advice on implementing and optimizing AI technologies to match your business goals. Our consultants can help evaluate your business processes and find effective AI solutions to improve them. An example of using image recognition in the car insurance industry. computer vision Pinch and spread for zoom Our process At DICEUS, we use individual approaches matching your project specifics. We tailor solutions to various combinations of requirements and challenges to achieve the best results. Each project utilizes advanced innovative technology and features suitable for specific purposes. Here’s how we usually handle your project workflow stage-by-stage: Discovery phase To kick things off, our experts perform deep preliminary research and feasibility studies. We check the existing system, evaluate its operation, and investigate potential generative AI tools that could be useful for your needs. Once the set of tools is chosen, we check its compatibility to make sure the artificial intelligence integration adds real value to your processes. Our professional team identifies and prioritizes the main use cases and the latest relevant AI solutions, deciding where AI can show its full potential and make a difference in future operations. Generative AI will be especially useful if we select the right points of impact. We discuss the chosen model, possible timelines, and available resources with the client. After this, we estimate and set the project budget. After the research and initial preparation, we approve the detailed integration plan and start up the development cycle. Development stage The development stage wouldn’t be possible without a high level of expertise. To make AI work, you need deep knowledge of machine learning. Our experts provide in-depth experience in training and configuring AI models. We collect, clean, format, and preprocess data for future training. We pay special attention to collecting the data from various sources, structuring, and cleaning it. Data quality and diversity are crucial for AI’s ability to react to different scenarios. Speaking of different scenarios, you can take two development paths at this point: – get a brand-new custom model – or get a pre-trained one We can create a new model from scratch, training it however you need based on unique business or tech needs. We can also take a proven, working model and adjust it to match your wishes. Pre-trained models are considered a more cost-saving option with a variety of customizations. We can tailor and fine-tune it according to your company’s requirements with appropriate AI algorithms. During the development phase, we also work on the system design, shaping any vital parts of future AI systems you need — our experts work on interfaces, backend systems, and integration points. Integration At this stage, we integrate AI solutions with your existing systems (CRM, ERP, or others). We help seamlessly connect data sources (texts, visual data, etc.), ensuring smooth data flow and error-free functionality. We import and process assets from databases and cloud storage solutions. If necessary, we develop custom APIs to arrange the connection between the AI solution and other software applications. Real-time data streams are also used to get quick and precise outcomes. Our team closely cooperates with the client’s IT department to introduce AI models into the present system. We adjust the AI system to match the operational parameters of the existing infrastructure and the client’s requirements. Testing We always perform a full evaluation and testing of the new AI solution before the final deployment. We are a quality-focused team and check everything before our project goes global. We evaluate how accurately it works and the level of compatibility with various work processes. We can check how effectively the solution works by performing all full-coverage testing, which includes: – Unit testing helps to check the correct work of each component within the AI system. – Integration testing verifies that all components are connected and work together within the upgraded system. – Performance testing is a way to ensure the system will show the same performance level in various stress situations. After the deployment, we continue to test and optimize the system through end-user feedback. Testing in real-world conditions helps to gather relevant feedback and provide timely adjustments. We need to make sure we have achieved the required goals and test everything until we get precise and accurate results. Support We offer not only smooth integration services but also ongoing support afterward. We understand that such cutting-edge technology requires attention and constant monitoring. It is a road of regular upgrades and search for efficiency improvements. Based on user feedback and personal experience, your company may want to fix or adjust it. Our support services cover the following: – Monitoring and fixing possible issues – Regular updates and bug fixing – User support on troubleshooting, guidance, and questions about the system – Optimization for improved performance and adaptation if changes are required. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Why choose DICEUS Expertise and experience. Our professional team has extensive experience in successful generative AI integration across diverse industries. Our experts include data scientists, AI engineers, and system integration specialists with a deep understanding of all underlying processes. Tailored solutions for each client. We understand each case is unique and tailor solutions to match your expectations. We thoroughly select AI tools to achieve each specific system’s most satisfying and efficient result. Comprehensive process. We are engaged in the process from the first consultation to post-launch support. We provide a full-service package, guiding and supporting you through each phase of the complex AI integration procedure. Cutting-edge technology. We utilize the latest advancements in AI technology to deliver progressive solutions. We handle everything from AI and Machine Learning to VR/AR and FinTech. Proven results. Our finished projects and satisfied clients show that we are the team to rely on. Companies within various industries have experienced the benefits of our AI integration services. Exceptional quality. We employ well-tried testing methods, combining them with the latest tools, to ensure our AI models are reliable, accurate, and safely integrated into your existing systems. We take a client-oriented approach. We value collaboration with our clients, guaranteeing personalized attent ion and full dedication to a successful integration process. Responsible AI solutions. We make sure that our development corresponds with ethical industry standards. Your security and data privacy are highly prioritized in our workflows, which is why we consult and implement robust cybersecurity measures to protect you throughout. Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our tech stack Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products FAQ How can AI integration benefit my business? Generative AI integration is a solution that can transform your business processes entirely. It solves the problem of time-consuming processes by automating them. Branding and marketing campaigns can be supported with comprehensive, accurate, and all-covering insights. The implementation of generative AI also gives you access to innovative AI-powered tools that can cover a significant task range: trends research, customer support, behavior analysis, and others. What specific AI areas does DICEUS specialize in? We grant outstanding expertise in several key AI areas: Voice recognition : We develop systems for accurately understanding spoken language, such as text and voice command apps. Large language models (LLM): We work with advanced models for natural language processing that cover text analysis, interpretation, and generation. Computer Vision (CV): We implement technologies to recognize images and detect various objects. Optical Character Recognition (OCR): Our experts use technology to detect and recognize words and characters in images for transferring into digital texts. Chatbot development: We offer intelligent chatbots that create human-like interaction and provide instant and accurate responses. How does AI enhance automation? AI enhances automation by making the system perform complex tasks with minimal human effort. It combines the minimization of human intervention with improved efficiency. Artificial intelligence can achieve it through the following functionality: 1) Process optimization via detecting inefficiencies within workflows. 2) Predictive analytics for trends and outcomes predictions and informed decision-making. 3) Automation of repetitive tasks (document processing, data entry, responding to customer queries). 4) Intelligent decision-making thanks to the analysis of large data volumes. 5) Adaptive learning allows systems to stay in line with changing conditions and acceptance criteria for new data. What’s the initial step in AI integration? The initial and one of the most important steps of integration is understanding the client’s needs. They become the basis for the whole integration process as they affect features, tools, functionality, models, and specific requirements. Before starting the development, we need to clarify what exactly you want to achieve with the help of AI. We collect information about existing systems, workflows, and main processes to understand what can be improved. Establishing success criteria helps set guidelines for development. What’s the strategy for integrating AI into existing systems? We developed an effective strategy for generative AI implementation. It consists of the following steps: Consultation: We understand your needs and business requirements. Discovery phase: Time to choose required tools, identify use cases, and build the development plan. Development phase: Data preparation for AI model training, training process, fine-tuning, and system design. Integration phase : We integrate the model into the existing system and import data from data storage and cloud bases. Testing phase: We perform a series of tests to check the performance, accuracy, connection, and compliance with the system. Ongoing support: We keep an eye on the system, monitor its productivity, and fix bugs and issues. We also pay special attention to the feedback to ensure that the desired outcome has been reached. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman