SaaS development company Free consulting What we offer SaaS software development requires a niche-specific, expertise-driven approach and complex solutions, and we at Dicues have been acquiring SaaS savviness for years. Extensive experience and regular SaaS project completion practice enable us to deliver reliable full-cycle projects from web/mobile apps to cloud solutions and custom APIs. SaaS development services Pinch and spread for zoom SaaS development consulting DICEUS is your SaaS development company of choice, providing full-range project consultations and expert recommendations on any aspect of your existing or future SaaS product. Our specialists will consult you on building a new product concept, properly analyzing the market, and the most relevant niche practices. We have all the expertise it takes to help you achieve the most viable product. SaaS software development From requirements analysis and basic architecture creation to full deployment and post-release support – we have qualified in-house powers to take your product concept through an efficient development cycle stage by stage. You get to constantly monitor all the underlying processes and make your corrections while our seasoned team of developers focuses closely on your particular needs and goals. SaaS UI/UX design Design is one of the holding pillars of your SaaS product’s success. We provide professionals with in-depth expertise in building the sturdiest, most user-suited UI/UX foundation. We will help you accumulate a profitable amount of constantly growing traffic, boost the loyalty of your target audience, and avoid many cost losses due to poor design. Our designers create UI/UX jointly with developers. Support and maintenance In terms of the SaaS development services we provide, we never drop your project after deployment, launch, and release. To help you avoid market introduction complications and possible operational errors, we have a separate support and maintenance team to monitor and mend any issues and unexpected inconsistencies. This will help you better adjust to the target audience’s expectations and needs. Do you need to elaborate a SaaS product idea, develop a product from scratch full-cycle, optimize or maintain an existing solution? Just tell us what to do – the rest is up to our team. Let us help you impact the market most efficiently upon the product release and satisfy your target users’ needs as properly as possible. All this can be achieved with a full-cycle SaaS development handled by experienced professionals at reasonable SaaS development costs. Free consulting SaaS development company Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of SaaS development outsourcing At DICEUS, we focus on providing SaaS development outsourcing services that specifically fit your business niche, goals, and needs. Based on that information, we can help you decide on the most proper product format and most potentially user-attracting vision. Setting this in line with your particular requirements, we gather an individual team of profiled specialists that know best how to handle all stages of your product development cycle. SaaS development expertise We provide outsourcing specialists that have been acquiring profiled expertise for years to tackle particular tasks. Each outsourced professional does what they do best so that the smoothest development workflow cycle and the highest end product quality can be achieved. Subdivision by expertise also helps avoid unnecessary confusions and miscommunications, decreasing many risks. Extensive industry knowledge Our specialists constantly research and analyze the latest SaaS industry trends, tendencies, and best practices. Over the years, we have streamlined our own approach to monitoring market dynamics, making efficient conclusions and predictions based on the relevant industry events and advances. This enables our specialists to point you in the most fruitful product development and release direction. High-quality guarantee To guarantee the highest quality of the end product, we combine experience, expertise, transparency of all processes, and segmentation of specialist roles by tasks and profiles. On top of that, we have the workflow adjusted by years of practice, offer quality assurance phases, prioritize your business goals and requirements, and use well-proven project data security technologies and practices. Well-defined SDLC When it comes to the software as a service development life cycle we provide, our specialists focus on taking it step by step and aligning each stage with quality standards and your requirements and opinions. It all starts with the prep stage, thorough planning, in-depth analysis, and continues with design, development, testing, deployment, and post-release support and maintenance. Our SaaS development process We believe that to provide the highest-quality SaaS software development services, every tiny workflow detail must be synchronized, and specialists with specific profiles should perform jointly. By adjusting this approach, we have managed to complete, deploy, and support dozens of SaaS products that helped businesses and entrepreneurs boost reputation and profits. How exactly does the project implementation with the outsourced team of DICEUS go? We start from the essentials and go phase by phase. Requirements gathering First, we need to gather and systematize all the requirements you have for the future SaaS product – how you see it as a whole, what its main goal and purpose are, what you would like to see as the final result. At this stage, your active involvement in discussions and project outlining is essential. Based on your input info, we will compose a comprehensive list of requirements to go by. Wireframing and design On to the outline of the basic structure for your future SaaS product. We have all the specialized wireframing tools to build a sturdy, reliable carcass for a solution of any scope and complexity. The outlined wireframe is then completed by UI/UX design elements, growing some basic interactive “meat” on its “bones”. The design is worked out jointly with wireframing experts. Development and testing The most technically complex stage of development implies implementing interactive functionality into the designed solution by hardcoding custom elements and features and adding proper tools and integrations. For this, our programmers write clear, high-quality code and propose integrations to go for. The quality of development is reinforced with thorough automated/manual testing. Deployment and maintenance Once your SaaS product is designed, developed, and polished with a set of tests, we also help you properly deploy it according to the standards and specifics of its operating environment. We have different specialists that know mobile, web, proprietary, and other environments like the back of their hand. Once the finished solution is deployed, we continue to maintain its operation. Free consulting What impacts your project duration Our specialists are pretty speedy at work, performing jointly and based on well-proven workflow practices. But we need to settle the following information to keep things hasty and smooth. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs The final project budget and the underlying costs are difficult to calculate precisely in advance. But we can point out what affects project expenses the most and help you optimize these aspects. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We have a well-adjusted workflow within our teams, but to optimize project quality and accelerate the product’s time-to-market, we are going to need your participation and some decision making. In particular, here’s what input data we need from you. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our tech stack Free consulting Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Frequently asked questions What are the specifics of SaaS development? The main nuance of SaaS product implementation is the web-based development of a software solution with centralized access. The final SaaS product operates online and doesn’t require installation on devices. This is why it is essential to know all the specifics of the online software deployment environment, possess expertise in cloud technologies, and server hosting principles. How to gather requirements for SaaS development? The best way to compose an up-to-date, comprehensive set of requirements is to learn from the top market players. Thorough market and competitor analysis should set you in the right direction. Then, there are also relevant SaaS standards discussed actively in respective forum threads online. The requirements should also fall in line with your particular business/project goals and needs. Our SaaS software development company can help you handle all that hassle-free. How to find a reliable SaaS development vendor? There are many SaaS product development companies out there, but only a bunch truly has what it takes to smoothly deliver a top-of-the-line product. Visiting the official website of DICEUS, you can check thorough descriptions of the scope of expertise we offer and take a look through our portfolio in the Case Studies section. Check it to see how many industries we have already managed to cover with finished SaaS projects for international clients. Similar services Enterprise software development Mobile application testing Custom software development services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman