Website development services Get consulting on web development What we offer Our web development agency houses high-end specialists that constantly enhance the tech stack they employ at work. We have hundreds of successfully finished projects that we continue supporting under our belt. If you are looking for a wide range of high-profile web development services, here is what we offer in particular. Website development services Pinch and spread for zoom UI/UX design The in-house professionals of our website development company always create multiple mockups so that you have more than one option to pick from. We are focused on meeting your requirements and expectations as closely as possible. In certain cases, skeuomorphism-driven approaches help us make end products highly accessible to users while the latest design trends make solutions market-competitive. Front-end development We have seasoned frontend developers to deliver an utterly intuitive, eye-grabbing solution with as many capabilities of any complexity as you wish. All our end products are adapted for further scalability so that adding new features later on wouldn’t be problematic at all. We focus on creating business-boosting solutions free of issues that might require additional costs and effort so that you don’t come across any unexpected pitfalls in your field practice. Back-end development No matter how intense the traffic you need to maintain, we guarantee reliable, failproof performance resistant to high stress-loads. Our company’s team of experienced backend software engineers knows how to make your application sturdy and stable at the very foundation. We use only top-of-the-line tools and possess in-depth expertise in the most commonly employed programming languages, frameworks, and SDKs. CMS development Looking for cost-efficient development services that will still bring profitable, high-quality results? We offer web development based on well-tried-and-tested readymade CMS digital platforms like WordPress. This is the shortest way to create a product with an easy-to-grasp software core that can be painlessly maintained by other IT teams. We create affordable trendy eCommerce solutions that meet all the industry standards. However, if you need a custom solution to meet your specific needs, we will come up with an individual approach for you. Contact us if you ultimately need the most optimal price-quality ratio in development services. Our experts will pick the most suitable project implementation strategy for your business needs and put it to practice. Are you ready to introduce your take on the digital business to the market? Got a profitable concept that needs to be properly realized in mind? Hit us up right now to discuss any technical details, budget, and project deadlines you have in mind. Get consulting on web development Website development Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of our web development services Working with new people is always a leap in the dark. Many companies turn to cheap freelancers from India just to get an absolutely no-go end product difficult to modernize, expand, and maintain at the lowest costs. Unlike those vendors mentioned above, DICEUS doesn’t make empty promises — we tailor software development to your business specifics and help you find efficient ways to not spend extra without a necessity. Understanding your needs Before initiating the development cycle, we always settle with your individual requirements in the smallest detail. On top of that, our specialists conduct a thorough business analysis and marketing research, identifying the main tech trends in your business industry, top competitors, and the gaps you have. This approach allows for getting a niche-leading solution that opens up new profitable horizons for business. Cost-effective solutions At our website development agency, we always keep in mind the optimal budget, forming a tech stack that matches the client’s capabilities. The project’s feasibility and profitability should be a top priority when it comes to the development of business-boosting solutions. We don’t make you fall for cheap tools and project shortcuts. We use profiled expertise and a balanced workflow to optimize all the expenses. Transparent project control Yet, another priority is keeping in touch with the product owner at every stage of the project. This approach guarantees a fully transparent distribution of resources. It also practically excludes the need for expensive change requests during or after the implementation cycle. Straying from the initial client’s vision and needs may result in unnecessary pitfalls. That’s why we always let you keep everything in check. Excellent UI/UX expertise One of our web development firm’s philosophies implies providing a top-notch user experience, making even the most complex solutions readily accessible for a wide range of end-users. We achieve this with intuitive interface elements, smooth performance based on optimized software algorithms, inviting visual design, and an overall approach focused on your particular business domain. Our website development services Each of the website development services we offer can be combined and adapted to the full development cycle of your unique project from scratch. Whether we are developing a new solution from the ground up or building a CMS-based product, our project cycle includes the following stages. Requirements capture First off, we hear out your ideas and vision of the project to translate it into the list of functional and non-functional requirements. The entire future process of web development is focused on compliance with this list of specifications. Design and architecture Our experts prepare several custom-tailored mockups for you to pick the most intuitive and visually attractive. You don’t have to worry about plagiarized design — we create exclusively 100% unique solutions to help you outrun the competition. Frontend and backend We have frontend and backend developer teams that can work in sync to reduce project time. You get to personally observe all their activities and see whether the development is moving in the right direction and whether the solution being created meets your expectations. QA and testing The team of certified testers will provide full coverage of the program code with numerous test cases to exclude any bugs that can potentially make you lose customers and profits. We guarantee strict adherence to common software quality standards. Product deployment Upon successful completion of testing cycles, we will draw up detailed product documentation and conduct the analysis of your deployment environment. You will have to fix any issues we find there, if any, before the deployment date. Support and upgrades In order to keep the project fresh and updated, it is crucial to follow the latest web and mobile development trends continuously. We will ensure timely updates of a finished product and take full responsibility for its technical support. Get consulting on web development What impacts your project duration For most clients, limited project completion terms are of the essence. Development duration is usually defined by the following factors. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Budget What affects your project costs How much you are willing and able to pay for your concept is paramount. Lots of crucial development decisions depend heavily on this matter. The project budget is affected by multiple underlying factors. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team Change requests What we need from your side In order to avoid any project misconceptions, we carefully discuss the specifications at the early implementation stages. For that, specialists from our web development services company will need the following information. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Budget scope Our tech stack Get consulting on web development Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Frequently asked questions Where can I find the best web development services? Our professional web development company provides top-quality services at competitive rates so that you wouldn’t opt for unreliable freelancers or go bankrupt with overly-ambitious contractors. How do we come up with the price-quality ratio that fits both you and us? To keep our offers fresh, we thoroughly analyze the IT services market to keep our prices optimal and advance our tech stack according to the latest trends. What are the various web development services? The range of our professional web development services includes traditional web development of projects from scratch, creation of CMS-based eCommerce products, as well as support and modernization of existing solutions. We may not be your first specialists to work on the project, but no matter the ambitions and complexity of your development concept, we will take on the challenge at hand and help you properly hit the market. How to hire the best eCommerce web development specialists? DICEUS operates among the leading European software providers specializing in eCommerce solutions and high-end web development. We will readily create a top-of-the-line solution to boost your business with stage-by-stage implementation, clean code, high performance, reliable support, in-depth SEO optimization, and traffic-stimulating overall design for maximum profits. It’s time to take your business up a level or two. Similar services Mobile app development Web app development UI/UX design Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman