P&C insurance software development services DICEUS has over ten years of expertise developing custom solutions for P&C insurance companies. Our dedicated team of engineers and field experts has an in-depth understanding of the industry’s complex business processes, data standards, and compliance requirements. Talk to expert Estimate project Why custom-built P&C insurance software matters for the sector In the highly ambitious insurance market, custom software is vital to the successful digitization of P&C insurers seeking to gain or maintain leadership in the niche. With the property and casualty insurance software built specifically for you, you gain flexibility and control, enabling automation and integration across your enterprise. The investment in custom solutions yields returns through operational efficiency, customer loyalty, and accelerated growth. Values that P&C insurance software brings Our insurtech solutions enable your company to strengthen functionality, boost processes, and speed up operations for tangible business gains. Efficient underwriting workflow Custom P&C insurance software automates underwriting through immediate risk assessment, verification of details, and quote generation, allowing your team to dedicate attention to complex cases. Through automated decision-making, you expedite underwriting and improve accuracy. Optimized claims handling With custom P&C insurance solutions, you perform claim processing faster and more correctly. Configured to match your claims workflows, it can automatically assign claims to the proper handlers, prompt next steps, and flag urgent due dates. Enhanced customer focus Bespoke solutions provide the seamless, omnichannel experience today’s customers expect. From intuitive portals and mobile apps to personalized communications, custom P&C insurance software helps strengthen client bonds and cultivate brand allegiance. Excelled sensitive data protection Custom P&C solutions safeguard sensitive customer information using advanced encryption, authentication, access controls, and data loss prevention tools per your requirements. Compliance with regulations like HIPAA reduces risk and gives you peace of mind. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Core features of bespoke property and casualty insurance software Streamlined quoting process Automated quote generation with built-in pricing algorithms and underwriting rules enables brokers and underwriters to quickly provide clients with multiple quote options based on their unique risk profiles and coverage needs. Robust underwriting Your bespoke P&C insurance software solution allows you to define risk attributes, weigh their importance, and use rules to identify risk profiles and scores quickly. After issuing a policy, it continues monitoring changes to help an underwriter decide on any adjustments in the coverage or pricing before renewal. Structured contacts management A centralized database stores contacts for all your applicants and policyholders and groups multiple contacts at an organization under one account record. This allows a quick lookup of contact information for follow-up, service, or sales. It also provides tailoring services, products, and messaging. Well-run document management With documents instantly available with a single click, customer service reps can rapidly respond to inquiries, underwriters have the complete picture to assess risks appropriately, and claims adjusters have the documentation to settle claims quickly and accurately. Optimized policy lifecycle management Custom P&C insurance software development offers solutions that automate as much of the policy life cycle as possible. They seamlessly match your company’s products, rules, and workflows and enable you to customize policy terms, coverage, limits, exclusions, and pricing. Timesaving claims management functionalities A custom-made solution enables P&C insurers to reduce claims lifecycles, decrease loss adjustment expenses, investigate claims thoroughly and efficiently, and promptly proceed with payments (or denials). Self-service portal for customers A self-service portal boosts convenience for your customers, increasing their retention rates. It allows your policyholders to manage their policies using a specialized timetable without calling or visiting an agent for every interaction. Mobile access for on-the-go users Utilizing tailored P&C insurance software development, you can enable your clients to control their operations through staffless tools on your mobile platform. You let them report claims, download forms and policy documents, pay bills, etc, on the move. Extensive reporting and analytics Comprehensive reporting allows insurers to gain visibility into loss rates, claims frequency, premium growth, and other indicators. Predictive analytics can help you anticipate risks, make informed underwriting decisions, optimize ratings, make claims handling painless, and more. Effective CRM The system stores each customer’s contact details, communication histories, policy details, and notes. Through targeted emails, scheduling follow-up calls, and reminders, it lets your service reps build stronger connections. Our services Custom software development Mobile app development Web app development Customer portal development System integration Legacy app modernization Want to discuss your project? Contact us About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Why choose DICEUS? DICEUS has been helping P&C insurance companies thrive in today’s fierce global market with: Omnichannel strategies for peerless involvement across all your customer touchpoints, whether online, mobile, or in-person Experience delivering over 20 projects across the global insurance sector Proven expertise and skills to tackle your biggest challenges The breadth of technology capabilities and technology-agnostic philosophy Emphasis on crafting robust customer-centric solutions Our partners How to get rolling with custom software development? Step 1 Define your P&C insurance software requirements Step 2 Reach out to DICEUS to discuss your P&C insurance software objectives Step 3 Collaborate with DICEUS experts to create a custom software development plan Step 4 Let DICEUS handle your end-to-end custom P&C insurance software development Top-5 P&C insurance digital trends Pinch and spread for zoom Our tech stack Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company FAQ What is P&C insurance software development? Property and casualty insurance software development refers to designing and creating software solutions for P&C insurance companies. P&C insurers provide coverage for individuals and businesses to protect them from losses from accidents, natural disasters, and more. How does P&C insurance software development work? Using an iterative approach, your P&C insurance software development company builds customized solutions to modernize insurance processes, cut expenses, and boost policyholder experience for insurance providers. Can your systems integrate with external applications from other providers? Our P&C insurance software solutions are designed to fit in perfectly with existing third-party apps your company currently uses. What are the benefits of using property and casualty insurance software development services? This software automates manual tasks, significantly lowering operating costs, speeds up all insurance operations, offers advanced business intelligence tools, scales with your business as it grows, and helps ensure compliance with industry regulations and reporting standards. What are common mistakes to avoid in P&C insurance software development? Unclear requirements, lack of research, poor project management, and choosing the wrong technology are all the most typical mistakes that fundamentally affect the success of bespoke software. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman