Custom software development company Need a custom software solution? Explore services Ready-made insurance software Discover solutions Custom software services and solutions Book a call Mobile app development services Develop a multi-feature native or cross-platform app, choosing whatever best works for you: Flutter, React Native, iOS, Android SDK, etc. Come consult with our mobile developers to find out what stack is better for your project and get a free consultation. Android application development services iOS app development services Mobile application design services Enterprise mobile app development Custom software development services DICEUS custom software development services are not solely about engineering software from scratch. We also provide system integration, modernization, and optimization services. You can also find here software architecture design, code audits, and IT consulting. Software architecture design Legacy app modernization services System integration services Data migration services Web development services DICEUS can become a reliable technology partner for your enterprise. If you want to launch bespoke software, you should get a transparent estimation and predictable outcomes. Let us provide you with professional services. Web app development services Web portal development services Website development services Offshore web development Hire developers DICEUS has been a technology partner for software development outsourcing and IT staffing for more than ten years. We offer quick scale-up for technology teams, including team extension and adding new skills to enforce you with specific expertise. Dedicated team Team extension IT staff augmentation IT staffing Case studies Knowing the purpose of your project is a critical first step in engineering. Each case starts with a thorough discovery phase. That allows us to estimate the project's time, cost, and scope and, therefore, deliver the best outcomes. E-commerce migration from Hybris to Magento 2 for Palmers Textil Austria Retail Applications for BriteCore's P&C insurance core platform USA Insurance Verisense wearable sensing platform by Shimmer Ireland Healthcare INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Germany Computer Software POC for Raiffeisen Bank’s self-service terminals development Ukraine Banking BenefitNet insurance solution UAE Insurance All case studies Focus industries Each enterprise is unique and requires specific software products to successfully function. DICEUS produces bespoke software and implements platform-based solutions for many industries. But we are most experienced in banking, fintech, insurtech, health-tech, logistics, and retail. Insurance Provide intuitive digital experience to insurance consumers using cutting-edge technology. We help insurers develop and modernize their software infrastructure by empowering it with IoT, automation intelligence, and predictive analytics. Discover how insurtech can enrich your business and learn more about our services. Learn more Banking The better service you provide for your clients, the faster you grow. Overcome the challenges associated with the customer experience and support, KYC automation, anti-money laundering and fraud, governance, risk management, compliance (GRC), etc. Get advanced technology solutions to streamline various processes in banks. Learn more Fintech Looking for a custom software development company to embrace fintech? We’ll be glad to support you in this exciting digital transformation journey. Expand your opportunities by leveraging AI/ML, blockchain, cloud computing, or IoT. The technologies mentioned can complement the services our company offers. Learn more Healthcare Improve patient care and telehealth services using our ten years' expertise in complex custom software development. Our portfolio has projects associated with a medical error-filling system, funding for medical research, and IoT-powered sensing platforms used in clinical trials. Our team will be glad to commit to your health tech project. Learn more Logistics Strengthen logistics with bespoke software to get a holistic view of your customers and operations. DICEUS creates modules for fleet management, document flow, CRM, supply chain management, procurement, and more. Automate your processes to deliver the best services among your competitors. Learn more Retail Enhance your core processes and prepare for digitization using our knowledge in e-commerce, CRM and ERP, predictive analytics, and point of sale (POS). Our custom software development firm will help you find the right solution to attract more customers, enhance your brand's loyalty, and automate operations. Learn more Talk to our experts about your project Get consultation Our clients Trusted by customers from all over the world. Our mission is to help our clients fill any business gap they have with the help of technology. While we are focusing on this, they can concentrate their efforts on core business operations. Latest company news Company news 2 min. read · 02 Feb 2026 04 Feb 2026 DICEUS CEO Illia Pinchuk pitched at ITC London 2026 Our CEO, Illia Pinchuk, Head of Insurance Technology Solutions, Kateryna Monastyrska, and Head of Growth, Dmytro Kazymir, attended ITC London 2026 to represent DICEUS. Illia Pinchuk delivered a pitch on the importance of to modernizing policy administration systems. Media coverage 08 Sep 2026 08 Sep 2026 How AI and automation are reshaping captive insurance operations Media coverage 23 Jul 2026 23 Jul 2026 Operational challenges of integrating AI into legacy insurance environments Press releases 3 min. read · 13 Jul 2026 13 Jul 2026 DICEUS partners with Kruzr to power connected motor insurance View all news Partnership and achievements What customers are saying about DICEUS Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer's research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS' software implementation services. The team's workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we'd like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Ihor Zhyzhara Deputy Chairman of Board, Kniazha VIG DICEUS developed a chatbot for our insurance company's medical and technical assistance departments. Now, we can support our clients online 24/7 through popular messaging platforms. The key functionalities include doctor's appointment scheduling, sending doctor's reports, submitting claims, and buying insurance. I liked the quality of services and especially the communication with the team. View case Tech stack It takes great skills and knowledge to develop software. Anyone who has ever created a technology solution understands how the right choice of the stack is important. Here you can see a list of programming languages, frameworks, databases, and platforms our IT company deals with. Benefits of custom software solutions Digitalization is much more than just adopting new technology. Usually, it encompasses a vast range of positive changes like using data of better quality, making decisions backed by data, and improving all your operations. You fully own IT consulting and software delivered Off-the-shelf software offers a great range of functionalities, but you should remember that all those come directly from the vendor. You buy this technology and use it for a certain period of time. But you never own it completely. A bespoke solution is a different case. With unique features developed especially for your business operations, you get full ownership. Customize and integrate seamlessly Unlike out-of-the-box systems, custom-designed software can be easily customized in accordance with your company's policies, protocols, brand, and user requirements. It can be easily integrated with your existing APIs to synchronize the work of all systems. Seamless customization and integration provide comfort to your employees and customers. You get a highly personalized solution Reaching your business objectives through technology is critical while implementing software. Unlike out-of-the-box products, tailor-made ones can be developed according to unique requirements. Thus, a great solution can meet all goals you set. A software development agency offers guidance and end-to-end execution of your project and guarantees you get and pay for as many functionalities as you need. On-demand scalability is always possible From the long-term perspective, you may think of potential changes in your workflows. Consequently, you will need respective changes in your IT infrastructure. Custom software and app development allow for high scalability. Simply put, it will be possible to add new features if required. Scalability requirements should be discussed beforehand. Software development life cycle Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance Why choose DICEUS as a business software development company? A strong client-vendor relationship works if it is built on trust and respect. We value our clients’ resources and respect your time. Therefore, our priorities are quality, time to market, and cost-effectiveness. Focus on quality first Smooth performance is ensured by our test engineers and developers who continuously check the code and fix the errors. Get to the market on time Going live on time you plan is crucial for many enterprises. We stick to the deadlines and launch the product within the projected timeline. Track your spendings You regularly receive reports on project progress and know your spending at a particular moment. It is also possible to determine how much a separate feature costs. Collaborate with a PM With the PM’s assistance, you will be able to track all the deliverables and project status, get reports and metrics, ask for resources’ scale-up, etc. Rely on skilled developers All candidates for technical roles are interviewed by our HR specialists and tech leads. We ensure smooth onboarding for everyone to teach the project’s specifics. Extend teams quickly It takes us around a couple of weeks to scale up resources, either human resources or specific expertise. We are flexible about seniority, rates, and cooperation models. Our team DICEUS, a custom software development company and IT staffing provider, has a great story. That is all about leading engineering expertise and customer satisfaction. We strive to deliver high-quality solutions to meet our clients' goals. Learn more about us Facts about us 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Latest articles 1 min. read · 30 Sep 2026 30 Sep 2026 DICEUS CEO Illia Pinchuk on the RiskCellar podcast Insurance 2 min. read · 10 Sep 2026 10 Sep 2026 Webinar recap: Beyond Excel – Automating Financial Operations for Alternative Risk Companies Insurance 10 min. read · 07 Sep 2026 11 Sep 2026 Building a technology-ready captive ecosystem: The role of regulators, managers, and service providers All articles FAQ What is a custom software development company? A custom software development company is a vendor that builds unique software from scratch. Also, such vendors provide a range of other useful services like software upgrades, cloud migration, and testing. Here is an extended list of services: Web and mobile app development Software architecture IT consulting and audit Legacy system modernization System integration Cloud computing QA and testing Technical support and maintenance IT staffing services Business analysis This list is not limited to the points you see. Each software dev company specializes according to its experience, tech stack, and skills. How to choose a software development company? Finding a reliable software development services provider is hard. Identify your objectives first. You should clearly understand what challenges you have got and what you need to be done to solve those. You can try dozens of ways to hire developers: googling, browsing on freelance platforms or trusted listings, or asking your friend for a reference. If you have already selected some candidates, you can do the following: Shortlist the candidates Prepare to discuss your project details Evaluate the vendors Compare the costs Choose the engagement model Learn how to control the execution Download a free guide on how to find a reliable vendor. Why do businesses need custom software development? Every day, your enterprise faces various challenges. Surely, in this digital era, you would like to address all the issues using technology. Unfortunately, out-of-the-box solutions can't fully satisfy your needs. Simply put, enterprises need custom solutions because they can be adjusted to the company's internal and external operations. Bespoke solutions are flexible, scalable, and integrative. Besides, while preferring tailor-made products, you can benefit from absolute customization. The system will be built according to your brand identity and users' feature demand. How much does custom software development cost? This question bothers everyone who is going to invest their money into cooperation with a custom software development company. No one will tell you the price because it depends on these primary factors: Architecture complexity Project's scope Team composition The seniority of team members Tech stack and platforms used You should ask a vendor to calculate the approximate cost in advance to balance your budget. Why custom software development is important? Custom software perfectly matches your requirements and challenges with technology. It gives you unique tools, a kind of differentiator your competitors don’t have. These tools make life easier by automating operations. All functions are accessible solely to your enterprise, customizable to your needs, and scalable according to your growth pace. How long does it take to build custom software? The duration of any IT project depends on the number of features to be built and their complexity. The time can be estimated during the discovery phase. The latter helps define requirements and divide the project into parts. Ultimately, you may get an estimated date of completion. Our discovery phase team will share their expert point of view on how to speed up the development process if you want to get results faster. For example, we may recommend hiring more senior developers or re-using some code if possible. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman