Banking and financial regulatory compliance software development Talk to our fintech expert What we offer IT consulting for banks We provide comprehensive consulting on software development projects of any complexity. From project planning to launch, we manage every stage, maximizing the efficiency of the whole process. We start with an in-depth audit of your existing IT infrastructure to identify issues and challenges. Then, we consult you on the ways to work out the optimal software development life cycle. Finally, we provide consulting on system integration, modernization, and regulatory compliance of software. Custom development DICEUS offers unique products and services intended to meet your specific needs. Unlike ready-made packages, our tailored solutions cannot be replicated by your competitors. Therefore, you will get an important market advantage. We provide such services as enterprise and startup solutions, architecture and infrastructure planning, data warehouse solutions, custom design services, desktop and mobile applications, and many more. System integration These services comprise software audit, detection of the current challenges, and development of a proper solution. Our team has broad experience upgrading IT systems for diverse industries, including core banking system upgrade and insurance management software modernization. Besides, we are adept at integrating breakthrough technology like AI, ML, IoT, blockchain, and more. IT Staff augmentation The chances are that your financial institution lacks in-house talent and technology to fulfill a large-scale IT project. This is where the IT staff augmentation option comes into play. The IT software market is extremely competitive today, while the projects are complex and extended. Therefore, opting for software staff augmentation helps you save resources and avoid pitfalls when conducting your project. regulatory compliance software Pinch and spread for zoom regulatory compliance Pinch and spread for zoom Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Benefits of banking regulatory compliance software Improved cloud security DICEUS is a skilled provider of cloud technology services. Our expertise includes both technical and business-oriented cloud aspects. With 94% of all workloads trusted to cloud computing today, on-premise data centers are likely to be superseded. We ensure strict compliance with all security regulations and enhanced security features to guarantee that your business data is safe. Protected data The proper data management in financial institutions guarantees information quality and consistency. Our solutions include data warehousing development for efficient data collection, processing, analysis, and protection. Thanks to the proper technology, banks can use and store their data safely and effectively, overcome the existing data-related challenges, and convert the information into precious insights. AI-empowered solutions We leverage AI technologies to help banks address the challenges related to decision-making, forecasts, and enhanced customer experience. AI-enabled systems help to optimize operations and strengthen workflows. Our main AI services for fintech include developing enterprise performance management, CRM analytics, workforce analytics, production planning analytics, advanced predictive analytics tools, supply chain analytics, and more. Seamless user experience Banking regulatory compliance software offers a host of opportunities for clients to feel comfortable. Essentially, these solutions help banks implement a customer-centered approach intended to delight clients at each stage of their journey. A seamless and joyful user experience increases loyalty and emotional connection with the brand. Our financial regulatory compliance software development process Discovery Phase Every project is started with discovering your business requirements, existing challenges or issues, and project goals. To identify all these things, we conduct engagement calls and meetings. After analyzing the gathered information, we offer our customers tailored software solutions that suit their financial institutions best. Development This phase is a cornerstone of the software development process since this is when we actually create the software. Our projects are conducted by experienced professionals and managed by PMI-certified project managers, which guarantees timely iterations and superior results. As a client, you will receive guidance from a dedicated account manager, who will address any questions or concerns and provide the required assistance. Testing and UAT Financial regulatory compliance software is used by millions of people, therefore, and requires thorough testing, including user acceptance testing (UAT). We conduct all kinds of manual and automated testing to guarantee the unrivaled quality of end products. We primarily focus on the high security of customer personal data, user-friendly interfaces, and prompt client support. Deployment Successful deployment implies a bit more than simply running the software. Prior to initializing the developed solution, we discover your specific environment and check whether everything is ready to operate smoothly. If we reveal any issues, we provide actual recommendations to ensure that the issues are resolved before the deployment date. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request What impacts your project duration Custom software development completion time can vary from a few days to a few years. The overall project duration depends on several significant aspects. Project requirements Expected time-to-market Team composition Chosen platforms and technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs The costs of custom software development services can be diverse. The expenses on your specific project will be determined by several factors: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side For seamless cooperation and an overall project’s success, you can do several things, which would help our custom software development team to maximize your gains from the project. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Financial SmartValor blockchain app development Financial HCM data management system Financial Web-based binary option platform on cryptocurrencies Financial VAT SaaS app for accounting Insurance A B2B application for Risk Point Frequently asked questions Can software improve compliance? Financial regulatory compliance software is intended to help mitigate possible financial risks and timely react to the interrelated global trends. The extremely turbulent financial environment is largely determined by constantly expanding regulatory rules, increasing the number of cross-border operations, raising security requirements, and more. The appropriate software helps to process large data volumes efficiently and align banks’ activities with the existing regulations and other external factors. What services do you provide for banks? DICEUS specializes in financial regulatory compliance software development, offering all kinds of software products employed in financial institutions. The comprehensive range of our services comprises the development of core banking systems, mobile banking applications, web banking solutions, UI/UX design, data warehouses, data migration services, AI solutions, software support, and more. Do you provide IT staff augmentation? Considering the global shortage of qualified IT specialists, IT staff augmentation can help your organization handle the challenges related to software development. A reliable partner is indispensable to combat the lack of in-house talent and efficiently tackle the issues arising during complex projects implementation. We wisely apply the staff augmentation model to maximize the benefits for all stakeholders involved in software development projects. Similar industry Blockchain Payments Lending Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman