Develop cloud applications and services Get consulting on cloud solutions What we offer Cloud application development services will allow businesses to be flexible by using their resources from anywhere. We help companies reach a faster time to market, decrease operation costs, and improve efficiency by fast cloud deployment and IT infrastructure roll-out. Our expertise is not only cloud based application development but also business analysis. The latter is all about discovering your operations and identifying the technologies that will affect your business positively. We help organizations move to the cloud and seize all opportunities this technology gives. We have experience building and implementing ready-made and custom app development cloud solutions, executing migration from cloud to cloud, and on-premise server to cloud. Develop cloud applications and services Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits develop cloud applications and services Using our cloud application development services, we guarantee you will get multiple benefits such as reduced IT costs, increased flexibility, improved business continuity, and collaboration. Cloud technology brings an ocean of new opportunities nowadays and our experts can consult you on how best to implement it for your particular industry and business domain. Reduce IT costs Moving your traditional operations to the cloud allows reducing costs to manage and maintain IT systems. In fact, you have a virtual business repository that can be accessed from anyplace anytime. With cloud solutions, you can decrease costs for hardware, software, and staff. Increase flexibility Cloud software development helps companies get solutions allowing people to be more agile in the workplace. Wherever they are, your employees can instantly respond and provide customers’ requested information at home or out of the office. Quick responsiveness increases customer loyalty, respectively. Business continuity In the event of any disaster or crisis, for example, coronavirus pandemic, you should be ready to meet all difficulties that may arise. Cloud service development is an excellent way to ensure business continuity by having your business data protected and backed up. Boost collaboration Cloud infrastructure encourages employees to communicate more effectively by accessing shared data. Cloud data management allows you to generate reports faster and share them with stakeholders. All this increases collaboration and the company’s efficiency. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our cloud based application development We are a cloud application development company offering a full range of cloud computing expertise that is always provided with a deep understanding of your business goals. Cloud computing consulting Cloud solutions consulting services include exploring your business models and identifying their readiness for cloud implementation or migration. We analyze your IT infrastructure to develop the right cloud computing strategy and provide you with useful recommendations on preparing your landscape for the project. SaaS development and implementation We build and implement software as a service (SaaS) solution, such as enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), content management system (CMS), Human Resources Management (HRM) systems with a pre-defined number of modules and functionalities. Custom cloud computing services We offer custom cloud software development from scratch. We gather functional and non-functional requirements for every project scope to deliver the solution that will meet your expectations and business-specific needs. Custom cloud software solutions are tailored to bring you complete flexibility in data management, increase data quality and security. Cloud migration services While providing our expertise in cloud computing, we adhere to best practices and a well-defined strategy that can be rehosting, refactoring, rearchitecting, rebuilding, and combining these. We also explore and prepare your data management systems, data warehousing, and database for smooth data migration and new infrastructure implementation. What impacts your project duration We are a cloud software development company that delivers projects on time. The duration of your project depends mostly on the factors mentioned below. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Migration type (from on-premises to cloud, from cloud to cloud) What affects your project costs Usually, we consider the list of things below to estimate web and mobile cloud applications services. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team Chosen cloud service What we need from your side We will need your requirements for cloud solutions development. We will also need your involvement in project planning and requirements gathering for a couple of hours per week. Your engagement will help us define accurately your challenges and expectations. Check out the list of other things we may need from you. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Project management Cloud-based project management solution Frequently asked questions What are cloud based applications? Cloud solutions work as a confluence of local and cloud components and can be accessed through an internet connection in a web browser. Their advantages are fast connection, instant data access, real-time information. How does cloud application work? Cloud applications work mainly by sending input data to the remote server and getting output data to access them. The inquiry results are displayed in the browser on your local computer. What are the types of cloud services? Custom cloud services we provide may include cloud computing consulting, cloud development services, cloud migration, SaaS, IaaS, and PaaS development. What is application as a service? Software as a service or application as a service is a licensed software product. These products are bought on a subscription basis. Similar expertise BI and Reporting Robotics process automation (RPA) Data warehouse and ETL Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman