Medical errors reporting system Services provided Custom software development Web app development System integration Expertise used Big data Cloud solutions Industry Healthcare Government Project overview Medical Errors is an advanced error-reporting system that is aimed to prevent the recurrence of harmful events in healthcare and improve patient safety. It gives citizens multiple helpful capabilities to file their complaints, track the progress, and get appropriate justice. Client Lean Business Services Team 11 members Country Saudi Arabia Duration Ongoing Client information Lean Business Services is a government-owned company operating under the Ministry of Health and working as a key enabler of E-Health innovation in Saudi Arabia. Business challenge Harm resulting from inaccurate medical treatment is an old concept known as medical errors. Among the most common causes of errors are patient-related issues, inadequate policies, inappropriate information flow. Patients suffer from harmful events due to medical errors that’s why the government has to respond to those issues by providing a relevant tech solution. It took much time for people to receive justice and accountability in court cases on medical errors through civil justice systems. Some cases could last months from initial case registration till court processing. Thus, the Ministry of Health needed to provide people with a user-friendly solution to effectively manage complaints. Technical challenges Our client needed to get the new system integrated with the National e-Authentification service and National Healthcare portal. We had to integrate the system with a secure National Identification portal for authorization and authentication using OAuth2.0. Personal user data was encrypted on the database level to prevent unauthorized access. The system also had to support one-time-password SMS notifications. There was additional integration with the National Medical portal to provide users with Healthcare institution details and Healthcare practitioners. Solution delivered To address the client’s needs, our team developed a comprehensive system with intuitive design. It allows users even with basic computer skills to handle their complaints data. The system is integrated with the State Healthcare portal which allows medical practitioners to participate in the process of a complaint investigation as well as to provide testimonials and conclusions. Users, in their turn, are able to check their complaint statuses online and track the progress. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features User management System admins are able to manage users’ identity, access to system service, and onboarding procedure. This feature addresses the need to manage users’ access to various resources available within the system. Complaint capturing People can easily file a medical error complaint or malpractice lawsuit which is the first step in bringing accountability. The system is user-friendly as much as users with basic computer skills can enter their data for review. Complaint processing from registration to court We designed and implemented a clear logic for complaint processing that automated this procedure and reduced the time needed to process a complaint from registration to court. Complaint assignment and reassignment All complaints, upon receipt by the system, are to be entered and processed. Assignment and reassignment are used for an accurate sequence of complaints and their effective management. Dashboards for different users We introduced clear dashboards for different types of users to effectively track and analyze information needed to manage medical error complaints. Integration with national healthcare portal The system is also integrated with the National Healthcare portal which is a central hub for getting accurate information and e-services in the healthcare sector. Integration with national authentication system To better manage identity access, the system was integrated with the National e-Authentification service which provides digital signing services and secure authentification for government online services. SMS and email notifications We implemented SMS and email notifications to provide users with real-time information and simplify the processes of acquiring the needed data. Value to our client 2 times faster complaint processing By implementing a certain number of features like a complaint assignment/reassignment and integrating the system with national healthcare portals, Medical Errors solution offers people to easily file and get instant accountability of their cases. 100% trustworthy e-system Due to integration with the National e-Authentification service and maintenance of the SLA procedure, the system guarantees high security and reliable user identity. Better assessment of medical errors frequency A fully workable solution provides now accurate information on medical claims frequency and empowers healthcare entities to devise effective prevention strategies. Our tech stack C# PostgreSQL ReactJS TypeScript Our other cases Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Government Resolute customer web portal and admin web portal Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman