Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Insurance Technology Solutions Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Insurance · 9 min. read · 2109 reads · 07 Aug 2024 09 Apr 2025 List of top insurance application development companies Like any other digitally driven industry, the insurance sector is rapidly developing. The market is expected to enjoy a staggering CAGR of 51.6% between 2022 and 2030 only in the U.S. US Insurtech Market Pinch and spread for zoom The statistics are even more staggering in raw numbers. While the global insurance software market didn’t reach $4 billion three years ago , it is forecasted to exceed the mind-blowing $166 billion in 2030. Among multiple insurtech products, mobile apps lead the pack, which is explained by the ubiquity of smartphones used both by customers and insurance agents. Insurance apps streamline and facilitate claims processing, policy management, underwriting, document management, bill payment, and other elements of the insurance pipeline. Doing this, mobile applications provide excellent customer experience thanks to their push notifications, integrations with payment systems, robust security, personalization options, and first-rate customer support. Organizations also benefit from making an insurance application a part of their IT environment since such products drastically improve operational efficiency, reduce OPEX, and enhance customer loyalty. The weighty assets of mobile applications in the domain drive the demand for insurance app development. The supply for this demand is overwhelming: the insurtech market is oversaturated with vendors offering insurance mobile app development services to agencies worldwide. This article will help you choose a reliable and competent insurance app development company. The best insurance mobile app development companies in 2025 Here is the list of the top ten insurance software development vendors specializing in delivering professional mobile apps. DICEUS DICEUS has been present in the software outsourcing market since 2011 and excels at developing an entire range of insurtech products, including insurance portals, chatbots, and more specialized niche solutions honed for workflow automation, data analytics, fraud detection, risk management, etc. During the 13 years of operating in the insurance domain, the vendor has delivered over 20 custom solutions for leading insurance and insurtech companies, such as UNIQA , BriteCore, WTW, BenefitNet, Fadata, and others. DICEUS also offers a family of digital software products for insurance called Vitaminise . It includes a mobile app, LLM-powered chatbot, web portal, customer feedback tool, and data analytics. These products are aimed at helping insurance companies reduce operational costs, improve efficiency, increase revenue, and enhance customer loyalty. diceus insurance software development Pinch and spread for zoom DICEUS provides a full-cycle insurance app development process, starting from the ideation and discovery phase through architecture planning, UI/UX design, and building a prototype and MVP down to coding, testing, and deployment. Besides, the dedicated team of DICEUS offers free consultations on CX strategy and extends post-launch support and maintenance services to its clients. While cooperating with DICEUS, you can always count on the well-thought-out SDLC, state-of-the-art tech stack and progressive methodologies used by insurance app developers, stringent adherence to the agreed upon project timeline and budget, and customer-centric approach the company practices. Axxis systems Axxis systems Pinch and spread for zoom The focus of this IT vendor is the creation of an integrated digital infrastructure for an insurance company, where a mobile app is a centerpiece. It is achieved via the API-first design of mobile apps and infinitely scalable solutions architecture. The headquarters of Axxis Systems is located in Panama City, but its offices are strewn across Latin America and Europe with globally distributed official partners. Cadabra Studio Cadabra Studio Pinch and spread for zoom Insurance apps aren’t the only specialty of this young company, which also works in e-commerce, logistics, healthcare, real estate, and other sectors. Started as a family business in 2018 in Ukraine, it has grown into a solid organization with 50+ professionals on its roster. Cadabra Studio’s fortes are the elegant UI/UX design of the apps it creates, high-end workflow automation capabilities of mobile solutions, and smooth integration of third-party services. EPAM EPAM Pinch and spread for zoom This company is even younger (established in 2021), and, as you can judge by the name, it specializes in building solutions for startups and small and medium-size businesses. The vendor’s consultants provide budding entrepreneurs with valuable advice on the entire gamut of problems related to the production of insurance apps. Its developers can set to work on short notice, thus reducing the time-to-market of the future solution. Techahead Techahead Pinch and spread for zoom It has numerous industry awards and is recognized as a Clutch Global Leader in 2023. Initially launched in India, it has acquired a firm foothold in the USA and numerous global clients (such as Allianz, AXA, Great American Insurance Group, and more). They build feature-rich insurance apps, focusing on their impeccable security and round-the-clock maintenance services. Sapphire Software Solutions Sapphire Software Solutions Pinch and spread for zoom Founded in 2002 in India, it is one of the oldest players in the niche. Its special strength in the realm is the development of vehicle insurance apps they have been honing for the last six years. Alongside all the basic characteristics and capabilities of insurance products the vendor builds, it aims to make them SEO-friendly and lends a helping hand in promoting and marketing the customer’s business. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Appinventiv Appinventiv Pinch and spread for zoom Next year, Appinventiv will celebrate its tenth anniversary, approaching it with a solid baggage of delivered projects and strong innovative emphasis. Their products are fueled by cutting-edge technologies (AI, blockchain, IoT), which makes insurance apps they produce state-of-the-art solutions, bringing the future within the customer’s reach. MSG Insur:it MSG Insur:it Pinch and spread for zoom This company’s single pursuit is the delivery of all kinds of insurance solutions. The brand was created due to the merger of two insurtech behemoths – MSG Life and MSG Nexinsure – which allowed it to build a ramified network of offices across Europe and North America. It has cooperated with industry leaders on both sides of the Atlantic, delivering over 150 solutions to satisfied customers and combining operational efficiency with technological excellence. Code Brew Labs Code Brew Labs Pinch and spread for zoom The insurance apps this UAE-based company brews contain three connected UIs (user side, agent panel, and administrative dashboard) and are enriched with cutting-edge technologies and tools (blockchain, data analytics, virtual assistants, and the like). By addressing the vendor, you will obtain a 100% customized and scalable solution, allowing for an unlimited number of integrations. MTOAG MTOAG Pinch and spread for zoom The company’s name is an acronym for Moving Technology On A Go. Trying to live up to it, this Indian-born brand has been delivering high-end mobile app solutions across different industries (including insurance) for 15 years. Its strategy is centered around building long-term bonds with the clientele and creating human-centric apps with exquisite design. As you see, even this shortlist contains the names of many major-league players who provide first-rate insurance app development services. How can you choose the one that will suit you to a tee? Experiencing a lack of technical expertise and skills? Connect with a professional team to address your project challenges. Contact us Selecting the best insurance app developing vendor: essential tips Having cooperated with multiple customers all over the globe , we have learned all the ins and outs of the vendor selection process. What should you do to partner with a reliable and qualified IT outsourcing company? 1. Understand your needs Before starting the headhunt, you should come to grips with your business requirements for the future solution and identify its type. The latter conditions the roster of features your insurance app will have. Life insurance apps are aimed at streamlining shop floor operations, choosing the right policy to suit the user’s case, enabling online data-sharing, automatically calculating the interest rate, and delivering 24/7 customer support. Vehicle insurance apps should be honed to help people who have met an accident and want to have their claim satisfied as soon as possible. It means the ability to take and upload pictures from the accident site as well as other related evidence (police reports, documents, videos, and more), file a claim instantly, and get a repair estimate. Property insurance apps should allow for the choice of the property to insure (real estate, artwork, jewelry, etc.), track it for damages, and send regular reminders concerning property maintenance. Health insurance apps should be aligned with the medical side of the problem. In addition to claim filing, its users must be able to book an appointment with the doctor they need, opt for the most convenient health plan, enjoy telehealth opportunities, and use a self-service symptom checker. Travel insurance apps are geared towards minimizing risks in emergencies, covering unforeseen medical expenditures, insuring against luggage loss and trip cancelation, and providing instant cross-border access. Business insurance apps’ purpose is to safeguard the policyholder’s business investments. Such products should allow users to choose the insurance package in accordance with the enterprise’s size and area of operation, enable uploading documents proving loss or fraud, and settle the insured event. 2. Analyze the vendor’s website The vital information to look for on the site is the vendor’s experience in the IT outsourcing domain in general and in the insurtech industry in particular, the developers’ expertise in mobile app creation, the development methodology they employ (preferably Agile plus DevOps), the tech stack they are competent in using, post-deployment services the company offers, and its pricing policy. 3. Study ex-clients’ reviews First, you should carefully read the testimonials the vendor posts on its site. To get more details, you can contact previous customers and ask about their satisfaction with the product they obtained and the cooperation procedure with the vendor. 4. Communicate with the candidate in person This is the final phase of the vendor search. While talking with the company’s representatives, you will complete your picture of the outsourcer’s soft skills as well as the personnel’s ability to showcase their expertise and meet the clients halfway concerning various aspects of the future project’s implementation. Summing it up Insurance apps can radically improve the workflow of niche players and provide the ultimate customer experience to their clientele. To find a reliable and qualified vendor that will develop such a solution, you should pinpoint the problem you are going to address with the app, determine its type, get maximum information from the candidate’s website, analyze customer reviews, and meet the company’s representatives face to face. If you want to avoid all headhunt-related headache but hire high-profile insurtech professionals, contact DICEUS and order an insurance app from us. FAQ What are the benefits of having a custom insurance app? If you order a bespoke insurance app, you can customize its functionalities and elements according to your insurance agency’s business requirements and specifics. As a result, you obtain an efficient tool for boosting your pipeline routine and providing your clientele with a superb customer experience, thus gaining a competitive edge over your rivals in the niche. What common features should be included in an insurance app? The roster of features is conditioned by the requirements of the insurance agency that commissions the app and the type of insurance policies it deals with. However, most insurance apps contain such capabilities as user registration, quote generation, policy management, claims management, document management, push notifications, payment gateway, user self-service, and customer support. How to find the best insurance app development company? You should begin by recognizing your expectations of the future app’s mission and the business requirements it must meet. Then, you should comb the potential candidates’ websites to discover their expertise in delivering insurance solutions, the development methodologies they rely on, the tech stack developers are competent in, and the engagement schemes they offer. To obtain a 360 view of the vendor, you should communicate with the previous customers and contact the developing agency in person. What are the latest trends in insurance software development? If you want your insurance app to stand out among competitors, you should stay abreast of the novel trends in the niche, which include the increased adoption of AI, leveraging the power of Big Data and analytics, focusing on cyber security, embracing robotic process automation (RPA), broad usage of chatbots, reliance on fraud detection tools, and harnessing blockchain. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents The best insurance mobile app development companies in 2025 DICEUS Axxis systems Cadabra Studio EPAM Techahead Sapphire Software Solutions Appinventiv MSG Insur:it Code Brew Labs MTOAG Selecting the best insurance app developing vendor: essential tips Summing it up FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles Insurance 15 min. read · 17 Oct 2024 28 Jan 2026 List of top insurance software to use in 2025 Retail 18 min. read · 01 Oct 2025 04 Sep 2026 List of the top SCM software to use in 2025-2026 Fintech 15 min. read · 10 Nov 2025 14 Nov 2025 Top 10 fintech software development companies for 2026 AI 16 min. read · 14 Nov 2025 14 Nov 2025 Top 10 generative AI companies for 2026: A big overview Insurance 4 min. read · 11 Dec 2025 11 Dec 2025 Top 5 digital insurance trends 2026 20 min. read · 11 Mar 2025 20 Mar 2025 CRM modules list: Features for effective customer relationships All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman