Fleet management software development DICEUS provides fleet management software development services, including custom solution engineering and integrations of ready-made systems. Speak with our team Send request Fleet management software development services exist to provide businesses with tools to monitor, control, and optimize fleets of vehicles efficiently. Whether managing a fleet of delivery trucks, service vans, or construction vehicles, tailored vehicle utilization, fleet performance, and delivery management software make entire fleet management smart and streamlined across all angles. Real-time GPS tracking of vehicle locations, reactive maintenance scheduling, and driver performance (plus driver safety and even driver behavior) tracking increase fleet efficiency and future-proof fleet operations with the help of smart software solutions. In the long term, customized fleet management solutions help reduce operational costs across the board. Route optimization and better allocation of fleet assets achieve cost efficiency. Fuel costs can be cut with close fuel usage monitoring. Maximizing vehicle performance and doubling down on key performance indicators boosts customer satisfaction. Our fleet management software development services Fleet management software development A custom fleet management solution tailored specifically to the needs, goals, values, and other underlying attributes of your business is a real game-changer in the times of templated e-commerce and supply management systems. A solution like that will boost your long-term RoI, fleet productivity, user data, BI security, scalability, and demand tendencies. With proper expertise and enough experience like we possess at DICEUS, we can build something truly unique, created from scratch individually for your brand. Custom software for route optimization Finding the fastest, most efficient routes has the overarching objective of cutting costs, boosting productivity, and keeping customers happy. That’s where Custom fleet management software comes in. Giving real-time traffic updates, weather conditions, and delivery priorities, it suggests the smartest routes for the fleet. The result is less fuel wasted, fewer delays, and smoother operations overall. On top of that, because the software is tailored to one’s existing business systems, it sets up quickly and easily, granting fast results. APIs and software integration A fitting API properly integrated with the supply chain or fleet management system enables extensive optimization, performance, productivity, and connectivity opportunities. We have the expertise to build and integrate solutions that ultimately centralize and interconnect all your supply chain features and tools, both technical and collaborative. Sky’s the limit with the custom fleet management software development approach provided by seasoned specialists with extensive portfolios highlighting outstanding creations across industries. IoT solutions for fleet management To add an innovative touch to how you usually handle things and expand the efficiency of your supply chain and fleet performance further, we create IoT solutions for fleet management. Using metrics-generating beacons and sensor devices firmly connected to the real-time data processing centralized network does wonders in managing widespread fleet points. On top of that, the Internet of Things presents one of the trendiest toolsets, which will also make a great push for your marketing efforts and brand recognition. Fleet tracking solutions Automated vehicle tracking at each endpoint of fleet routes gives route planning managers and on-route operators a fuller picture of progress and tighter control over road situations. While GPS tracking enables a clear outline of the truck’s position on a map (as well as other vehicle data), integrated AI may help automate alerts and prompt reactions to them, gathering and analyzing real-time data on route every step of the way. And with detailed route histories and geofencing capabilities, workflow visibility gets even higher. Logistics data analytics and reporting Regarding fleet management system development at DICEUS, we prioritize in-depth work with data, focusing on thorough data analytics and reporting regarding logistics. Well-optimized, calibrated logistics result in the ultimate long-term success of your supply chain. We will help you outline the best new routes based on the statistical and historical data (as well as other logistics data) to save more essential costs and bear fewer unnecessary expenses through specialized integrations. Policies and compliance monitoring Navigating industry rules and regulations doesn’t have to be a headache when the right management software is employed. For instance, custom fleet asset management software can be used to track fleet data and monitor driver behavior, enabling driver management to ensure compliance with both security regulations and vehicle maintenance schedules. The resulting reports and metric-wise boosts make one’s fleet utilization not only resource-efficient but also highly secure and up to industry standards. fleet management Pinch and spread for zoom fleet management DICEUS Pinch and spread for zoom Get consulting on fleet management software Send request Benefits of our fleet management system development services Expertise The IoT, artificial intelligence, VR and AR, LLM, and big data – at DICEUS, we do it all. Our specialists regularly boost qualifications with the help of specialized courses, both in-house and during work trips. We keep in tune with the best market practices, technological updates, and innovations that can help us make your fleet management even more hassle-free, convenient, and profitable. Proficiency in cloud services Cloud technologies are the future of data processing and storing that we already have. Based on the latest cloud capacities, we ultimately reinforce your level of data protection, help efficiently handle intense data flows, grant smooth scalability, enhance collaboration capabilities, and reduce lots of costs in the long run. We can help you integrate with a cloud provider or build a cloud software system from the ground up. Discovery phase To guarantee high quality and cut out all the unnecessary risks and expenses, we offer to start projects with an in-depth discovery phase. Ultimately, you get precise software requirements specification, recommended tech stack and team composition, project roadmap, software architecture design, and other valuable deliverables. Agile project management With Agile project management methodology and a perfect grip on the best fleet management app development practices, we can guarantee timely project delivery. We ensure seamless communication, adaptability, and high-quality solutions tailored to meet your specific business needs. Must-have features for fleet management software Real-time GPS tracking enables route adjustments, reduces delays, and improves customer communication with accurate delivery time estimates. Route optimization reduces fuel consumption, shortens delivery times, and lowers operational costs. Vehicle maintenance scheduling helps prevent unexpected breakdowns, cuts repair costs, and extends vehicle lifespan. Fuel management helps control one of the biggest expenses in fleet operations through fuel efficiency tracking and personalized fuel management systems. Driver monitoring promotes safe driving, reduces accidents, and saves costs on fuel and insurance premiums. Geofencing boosts security, reinforces adherence to routes, and improves fleet efficiency via automated vehicle assignment. Fleet analytics and reporting feeds data-driven decisions to improve fleet efficiency and eliminate more expenses. Compliance management ensures regulatory compliance, helping to avoid fines and protect the business’s reputation. Mobile access expands accessibility and allows for quicker decision-making, even remotely. Integration support enables smooth data flow across systems and additional features. Our fleet management software development process Requirements gathering A thoroughly planned project can result in a sturdy, user-friendly solution. Knowing this firsthand, we start every project with in-depth preliminary research and requirements analysis. This involves discussing all the minor and major project specifics with the client, settling all the collaboration specifics, conducting business and market analysis, researching the TA, and outlining milestones and goals. Low-fi and high-fi design Once we gather all the requirements and get on the same page with the client, the basic design and a prototype of the future solution can be assembled. Our designer teams outline the basic software architecture of your fleet management system, app, or another piece of software. This includes the outline of major interface elements, color schemes, visuals, content representations, and many other front-end goodies. Development and testing With the design “carcass” ready and done, our programmers and software engineers start filling it up with the functional “meat” and setting things in motion. This involves hardcoding and integrating all the required features, elaborating on all the moving parts, optimizing capabilities, and doing lots of backend coding and calibration. The result is then thoroughly tested via multiple manual/automated testing iterations and polished up. Deployment and support Once we have a finished working product that meets the client’s expectations and satisfies all its purposes perfectly, we don’t drop it, helping you introduce it to your market niche “with a bang”. This means proper deployment in the required operational area for the smoothest initial traffic flow accumulation. In the post-release phase, we also help you maintain software updates and handle other support tasks since we know the created software by heart. Our SDLC Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements What impacts your project duration The total duration of every other project depends heavily on the underlying specifics and scope of the workflow. We have the expertise it takes to efficiently provide fleet management app development services. But here are the main factors influencing the duration of your project. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs The final cost of your end product depends on multiple deciding factors. We can help you achieve the most optimal pricing ratio based on your needs. Keep in mind that the following aspects mostly form the pricing. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We take full responsibility for every stage of the process. Our specialists have enough experience and are savvy in initiating and finalizing major project workflow stages. But you can help us achieve the best results by timely providing the following input. Project goals, vision, and a roadmap, if available High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available Client’s availability for weekly gathering session What our customers say about us Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our tech stack Explore our fleet management software development case studies Logistics A fleet management application for soldier trucking Logistics A blockchain solution for Vlantana Retail SAP ERP audit for Palmers Textil Automotive Enterprise resource planning tool for a transport company Retail Pentaho and microstrategy audit for Palmers Textil Frequently asked questions What are the basic modules of fleet management solutions? The ultimate number and types of modules necessary to implement a fleet management software solution may differ significantly based on the underlying project specifics. As we all know, we can integrate as many different modules as you wish. The essential things we’ll need to incorporate in terms of your fleet management system development, however, include fuel management, routing, shipment management, vehicle maintenance, and drivers’ management, along with the features they provide (engine idling, route mapping, delivery schedule, and dispatch, remote diagnostics, drivers’ behavior monitoring, etc.). Can you recommend a suitable tech stack for our project? At DICEUS, we provide a complete fleet management software development cycle, including post-release product maintenance and support. To handle all this work, we have savvy specialists with immense experience in an extensive stack of relevant technologies. Based on the analysis of your business, requirements, and other underlying project aspects, we will outline the most fitting tech stack explicitly tailored to your project goals and needs. Do you provide IT staff augmentation for project scale-up? We offer outsourcing and staff augmentation opportunities besides classic cooperation models with the in-house team and dedicated format. If you already have a project in progress but lack some bits and ends of expertise, we have a pool of specialists waiting to jump in and help you polish up the whole workflow. This will surely help you in the difficult time of project-defining decision-making, where a true professional’s touch is necessary. Similar industry E-commerce apps Retail apps POS software Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman