Cloud technology consulting services Get free cloud advisory What we offer Cloud computing gave businesses an excellent possibility to cope with the massive growth of data. Modern technology allows reaching the required scalability and flexibility. Our team provides comprehensive cloud consulting services and has experience implementing cloud solutions from leading providers like AWS, Oracle, and Salesforce. Cloud technology consulting Pinch and spread for zoom Cloud migration As part of this service, we will help you identify all strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats of migrating from cloud to cloud or from on-premise to cloud. Our specialists will also determine the readiness of your IT infrastructure and prepare a detailed report and a strategy. Besides, we do handle the migration processes and testing. SaaS development Using our cloud computing expertise and vast business domain knowledge, we build fast-loading software as a service (SaaS) products based on the latest technologies. We offer custom development and integration of CRM, ERP, HRM, CMS systems for retail, e-commerce, insurance, finance, and other industries. Custom development We are one of the top cloud consulting companies that offer a full-range service package for customers. It includes custom development and customization, cloud implementation in microservices architecture, data migration, integration with existing systems, cloud modernization, audit, and testing. Get in touch for free consulting on any of the services. Cloud architecture audit We provide cloud strategy services, including architecture audit and project roadmap. Our architects will explore your existing cloud solutions, platforms, and infrastructure to define technical gaps and issues, opportunities, and threats. As deliverables, you will get a detailed analysis report and recommendations on how to resolve the current problems. Apart from the above-mentioned services, we offer cloud maintenance, performance optimization, disaster recovery, cloud modernization. We will be happy to consult you on any of these services and help you develop your cloud-related project strategy. Get free cloud advisory Cloud technology consulting service Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of our cloud consulting services Cloud consulting firms traditionally provide technology advisory. However, here at DICEUS, you can get full-range custom development services and access a pool of innovative technologies expertise. Besides, we have developers with specific experience in banking, insurance, healthcare. Cloud solutions expertise We have a vast cloud computing expertise comprised of consulting, development, migration, and integration. Upon your request, we will demonstrate our case studies of cloud-based projects and the real business values our clients have received. We have expertise in AWS, Share Point on Azure, Red Hat Solutions on AZURE, Cloud SDK, Cloud IAM, Cloud IoT Core, Apigee API Platform, Big Query, Cloud SQL. Guaranteed outcomes While providing cloud technology consulting, we guarantee the outcomes of this service provided you appropriately implement our recommendations and strategy. Our consulting is based on in-depth business analysis, sophisticated knowledge of our experts, and company experience in delivering cloud projects. Comprehensive strategy Don’t know how to kick off your project? We are here to help you develop a step-by-step strategy to upgrade your system, migrate data, integrate a new system with existing ones. The strategy will help you avoid or minimize risks, select the right skills and resources, schedule the project timeline, distribute roles, communicate requirements to the team. Service deliverables Depending on your project complexity, scope, and your needs, we offer the following deliverables: project strategy, roadmap, Work Breakdown Structure, Critical Path. The latter two documents are critical for effective project planning and execution as they describe the smaller project jobs, their sequence, and dependencies. Our cloud consulting process We have a clear four-step process for delivering cloud consulting services. Usually, we start with a discovery phase that includes business analysis and requirements gathering. Next goes planning. And ultimately, we proceed to development and further maintenance if needed. Discovery The initial phase, called discovery, consists of business analysis and requirements capture. Our analysts will hold a few sessions with you to discover what you need, what your business and technical challenges are, what values you would like to reach. This phase is critical to further project planning and execution. Planning On the planning stage, together with you, we formalize architecture design and mockups, access the readiness of your infrastructure. You get a project strategy where you can see how, when, and who will develop your project. Development The development and testing phases are the most time-consuming. However, we guarantee that you get your software project developed on time. To go live successfully, we involve all needed types of testing, including automated testing for complex projects. Maintenance Among our services, we offer software support and maintenance, including optimization and customization of cloud solutions according to your organizational operations and needs. Please check out our “Software Support” page to learn more. Get free cloud advisory What impacts your project duration The duration of cloud consulting services depends on the following factors. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Service type (migration, advisory, maintenance, etc.) What affects your project costs The cloud consulting service cost is affected by the following factors. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model Chosen cloud service What we need from your side To provide high-quality consulting, we will need all available information associated with your cloud computing project. We will ask you to devote several hours per week during the requirements gathering stage, as well. Here are other things we will ask you to provide. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our achievements Our tech stack Get free cloud advisory Explore our case studies Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Frequently asked questions Which cloud service is the best, AWS or Microsoft Azure? It depends on your project needs. For example, if you need integration with Windows, Azure fits better. In case you search for infrastructure as a service, Amazon Web Services is a good choice. Our specialists can provide recommendations on the cloud partner choice. What things to consider when choosing a cloud provider? Among the top things to consider are such questions: where your data will be stored, how secure are the provided services, how you will access the cloud, what is the price, how compliant is the solution with regulations. Why might you need cloud consulting services? Your business might need cloud consulting services in multiple situations: you are facing constant challenges with remote data access, you need to increase scalability and flexibility of your current IT infrastructure, you lack cloud computing expertise onboard. Similar services Software architecture Legacy application modernization Data migration services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman