Free consulting on web application development Get free consulting What we offer Talking about custom web application development, we mean a whole range of distinct services. They include enterprise and customer research, design wireframing and prototyping, architecture planning, frontend and backend coding, optimization, maintenance, DevOps, and so on. Feel free to check examples of the most demanded services in our web app development company. And don’t forget to contact us in case you need something unique – we surely can check your requirements and propose suitable solutions. Website and web app development Blockchain solutions CRM and CMS solutions Cross-platform development Enterprise solution architecture GUI and UI/UX design Open-source development Progressive web app development SaaS development Software optimization and migration Tech support and maintenance Testing and quality assurance Online and mobile web solutions are core bridges between your business and clients. Web app development helps people learn more about your company, check the services and products, contact your team, interact with various solutions: catalogs, order forms, videos, etc. If you need a new tool, want to improve an existing app, or require thorough research, we’re ready to help with all these web application development services. We provide custom web app development, cross-platform development, design, web consulting, legacy modernization, system integration, and lifelong support. You can quickly get the solution you need, from simple websites to advanced dynamic web apps with the tailored client- and server-side modules. Don’t hesitate to ask us about our web application development company if you have any questions or ideas to discuss. Get free consulting Web app development services Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits from our web app development services Web app development services are complex, but they focus on your end goals always. We value your time, so all our services are client-centered. We offer custom cooperation models with changeable schedules, engagement and payment schemes. Through cooperation with our custom web application development company, you get the most critical enterprise values: Complete understanding of your needs In-depth business analysis helps us reveal your requirements, identify business gaps, and deliver software that fills them. Fast and responsive solutions You will get an app with UI and UX compatible with various platforms and browsers. We use advanced tools to minimize response time. Reduction of development expenses Eventually, you cut development time and costs thanks to custom Agile approaches. We work for the result, not hours. Transparent project control Using our monitoring service called Customer Portal, you can check all data about your projects, manage changes, and communicate with us. Our web application development process Our approach to website application development relies on a few general rules of software development. We have experience in Agile, Scrum, Kanban, and Waterfall models but suggest sticking to the first one as it offers the best outcomes, helps to control and deliver efficiently. Custom web application development services break into several stages: Requirements gathering and analysis First and foremost, you express your ideas, wishes, limitations, functional and non-functional requirements personally, in text or voice. Our Business Analysts check everything, and the project team identifies the best possible solution. This stage results in detailed project plans and SRS. Basic design, wireframing Further, developers and designers start working on the basic wireframes – structures of your future application, so-called blueprints. Further, we also create mockups to show how texts, graphics, and other elements will fit the basic structure. This stage helps to get a general idea of your custom web application. Architecture planning and prototyping This phase focuses on UI/UX design and prototyping – the creation of interactive demos of your app. As well, you can get the MVP to test the app’s viability without spending a lot of time and money. This step of website application development delivers architecture basics, too. Frontend and backend development After designs and interfaces are approved, we hand over all UI/UX elements and kits to the dev team. Frontend and backend coding provide for the creation of client- and server-side parts of the app. You can check the results regularly, submit change requests, and discuss your ideas with our team. Testing and QA Iterative testing helps us to get rid of bugs and ensure that the developed software meets your requirements and other metrics. Our clients get the full range of manual and automated testing services: functional, integration, interoperability, scalability, security, system, usability, and other types of testing. Deployment Once the final build is completed, tested, and approved, you can get it together with all the related elements: UI/UX, documentation, code, etc. Usually, you should finish the deployment via your environment. However, our developers and test engineers can help with this stage, too. Maintenance and upgrades After deployment, your custom web application is live. But we provide full tech support and maintenance. At any moment, you can return and ask to fix some things, add or remove features, change the design, optimize legacy modules, migrate data, etc. Moreover, we handle upgrades of third-party applications. Get free consulting What impacts your project duration As you may know, web applications are vast and diverse. And custom web application development services may take different time, too. We rely our estimations on your requirements and wishes, as well as key factors: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition The available technologies and platforms Extra integrations with other apps What affects your project costs Money expenses are similar to time ones. You can get tailored estimations after an in-depth analysis of your website application development info: Project scope and complexity The chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team The features you want to see in your app What we need from your side Any development process relies on the close mutual work of all stakeholders. From our side, we ensure on time, on budget, and on scope implementation. However, to reach the best possible quality and build a custom web application that meets your requirements, we need certain assistance: Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, e.g., software architecture and mockups A couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions Project deadlines Our tech stack Get free consulting Explore our case studies Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Project management Cloud-based project management solution Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Social media Business networking social platform Frequently asked questions What is a custom web application? In our web app development agency, we understand it as an online client-server solution. Web apps are located on servers, but clients can access them through web interfaces from any place. Unlike websites, these applications feature another architecture basis. While sites simply combine several static pages, apps are fully functional server-based programs. What are web applications types? Custom web app development offers several types of applications. One classification divides them into static and dynamic apps where the former type is less flexible and interactive. Wherein dynamic apps also divide into various subtypes: multi-page or single-page solutions, RIA, PWA, CMS, portals, and so on. Finally, applications may differ by the industry: e-commerce, healthcare, IT, etc. How much does a web app cost? It’s barely possible to predict the price before analyzing the custom web app development requirements. As you’ve learned, there are extremely simple static one-pagers. And they’re cheap. But complex portals with many functions and tweaks can be pretty expensive. If you want to get estimations for your project, contact our web app development agency directly. Similar services Custom software development services UI/UX design Software architecture Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman