AWS cloud consulting Looking for professionals to tackle the most intricate cloud-based tasks? Our AWS cloud consulting services will assist you in implementing cloud solutions of any complexity. Achieve maximum ROI and foster business growth with the expertise of seasoned professionals. Get in touch Scope of AWS consulting services DICEUS provides We offer cutting-edge technology and hands-on experience combined with stable and high-performance workflows set up right from day one. We also guarantee close collaboration, enabling you to attain an optimized cloud strategy aligned with the long-term requirements of your enterprise. AWS cloud strategy We help you to seamlessly and securely transition your databases, applications, and platforms from on-premises infrastructure to the AWS cloud. We can do this same process for selected workloads or your entire infrastructure, cutting out tons of unnecessary expenditures. Our team possesses all the competencies needed to craft an easily executable roadmap. Our AWS cloud consultants provide recommendations for data analysis and security, utilization of the latest technologies, encryption, and blockchain. We guarantee full compatibility of solutions with your platform. Furthermore, we offer opportunities to elevate your high-level strategy, giving you a competitive edge. Turn to us to ensure the utmost operational efficiency through advanced solutions and unique expertise. Cloud migration We assist businesses seeking to shed outdated or ineffective infrastructure, software, and hardware solutions by partially or entirely migrating digital assets and services to the cloud. We deeply engage with your existing digital environment and devise and implement an efficient migration plan tailored to your business objectives. Our AWS consulting team helps preserve existing infrastructure, allowing you to transfer your current workloads to AWS virtually without downtime or interruptions. Our profound understanding of best practices and extensive experience managing complex migrations make us the ideal partner for companies eager to leverage AWS cloud capabilities. Achieve a smooth, secure, and efficient transition with our guidance. Cloud analytics Our AWS cloud consultants help thoroughly optimize the process of data collection, analysis, and presentation, enhancing the quality of business decisions in the meantime. We leverage tools and methodologies designed specifically to help our clients extract and interpret information from big data. Specialists at DICEUS harness the power of automation and relevant tech. We extend advanced analytics across all business processes, enabling efficient shaping of requirements, business models, data structures, and digital reporting. We meticulously gather data from various sources, channeling it into automated analysis systems with available storage solutions, reducing workloads. Anything to let you embrace the best predictive analytics results with a cost-effective approach. AWS cloud optimization Each of our AWS consultants is an expert in uncovering automation opportunities and enhancing cloud solution speed and scalability. We help align your infrastructure with future requirements, boosting its efficiency and amplifying return on investment. With us by your side, your computing power will always match your needs, and the comprehensive infrastructure will operate as a well-coordinated mechanism. No access issues will arise, and the flexibility of your processes, coupled with low maintenance costs, will leave competitors behind. We actively manage crucial resource parameters through continuous monitoring and transparent operations control. Leverage our capabilities to significantly reduce your overhead expenses. Audit and assessment Valuing our clients, we dedicate tons of attention to a comprehensive study of specific issues in order to offer relevant recommendations. Our consultants will thoroughly explore your platform or application, analyzing the current state and determining the best-fit AWS integration for your operations. DICEUS experts delve into every detail, from report retrieval methods to process security assurance. You will gain a profound understanding of your business, enabling you to make it better, more efficient, reliable, and secure. We always recommend solutions aligned with client expectations, treating their challenges as our own. Your workflows are assessed promptly, after which we present the specific steps to propel them forward. Cloud app development Our Amazon Web Services consultants bring to the table unique experience in leveraging cloud development environments. We utilize advanced tools and tailor necessary workflows to optimize application development and testing across various industries. Through collaborative efforts, we can achieve remarkable outcomes in crafting flexible, user-friendly, and scalable applications that reside and function in the cloud. This allows you to easily adjust the resources these applications utilize in line with your project’s current requirements. We help ultimately enhance the resilience and efficiency of your development processes and instill a culture of rapid iteration and innovation within your team. With our solutions, you can elevate the quality of your software and respond swiftly to emerging challenges. Can’t find the service you are looking for? Explore all services Let’s discuss your needs! Contact us Why choose our AWS consultants We are your AWS cloud consulting company of choice when it comes to harnessing the full potential of AWS products and assisting in the implementation of a wide array of services built on personalized solutions. Partnering with gives you a range of competitive advantages, such as follows: Proven strategies for AWS implementation or migration Our consultants never work from templates, ensuring your recommendations are truly unique. Innovative analytics capabilities We employ cutting-edge methodologies, guaranteeing you only have accurate data at your disposal. Reduced costs in infrastructure development and enhanced scalability Our solutions are field-tested across numerous projects, earning high esteem through the years in practice. Top-tier technology for your development processes We leverage the entire arsenal of available features to enhance your development workflow efficiency. Partnerships we have How to adopt AWS: Roadmap Our AWS consulting company will assist you in selecting the cloud solution that perfectly aligns with your business, enabling you to leverage its full benefits. You get to enhance business value and revenue, bolster process security, and successfully complete your digital transformation. Assessment We help define goals, set tasks, and formulate strategies for swiftly achieving your business objectives based on sound starting points. Through meticulous research, we propose avenues for improving the performance of your infrastructure, analytics, and security. Implementation We offer proven migration solutions utilizing best-in-class AWS tools. Our experts will aid you in integrating corporate data for operational and analytical models, ensuring your company is geared towards innovative analytics. Maintenance Our recommendations guide the implementation of solutions capable of maintaining clients’ platforms and applications in real-time operational status. With us, you won’t need to worry about performance and functionality, as we guarantee all-around optimization at all stages. Revamp your business foundationally, infusing innovation with our AWS consulting services! Send request Our case studies Financial services Software Audit for Wilson & Franco Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Our focus industries Banking Fintech Insurance Logistics Retail Healthcare Our achievements FAQ What are AWS consulting services? AWS consulting services help various organizations and businesses harness the benefits of effectively utilizing AWS cloud capabilities. This includes cloud migration, infrastructure strategy development, cost optimization, security assurance, as well as implementation and support methods. Who provides AWS consulting services? AWS consulting services are delivered by specialized companies with qualified personnel well-versed in AWS services and integration methods. The team managed by such an organization must possess extensive experience and boast positive client feedback. Can AWS consulting services help with cloud migration? AWS consulting services can help you smoothly and confidently transition your applications to AWS. Specialists thoroughly assess your existing infrastructure and applications, determine the best strategy, and help formulate a comprehensive plan that ensures a swift and seamless migration with minimal risks. Do AWS consulting services provide ongoing support? AWS consulting services aid in planning, creating, and managing a cloud structure that encompasses the client’s local resources and infrastructure. You receive complete support across all implementation and management stages and a recovery plan tailored to specific requirements and budget. What industries can benefit from AWS consulting services? Practically all industries can benefit from AWS consulting services, especially in the context of ongoing digitization. They are essential wherever swift and convenient access to extensive computational resources, modern analytics, and technologies is required. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman