Natural language processing (NLP) services Natural language processing solutions are powered by artificial intelligence and machine learning models to help businesses turn unstructured data into valuable, actionable insights concerning multiple aspects of their internal pipeline and improving customer engagement. NLP software development services by DICEUS will enable your organization to revolutionize its business intelligence practices, make the most of textual data analysis, and step up employee-customer interactions. Talk to our team Advantages of NLP technologies for businesses First-rate custom NLP solutions honed to understand human language can usher in the following key benefits for organizations that onboard them. Automation of repetitive tasks Employees can entrust machines with a fair share of operations related to data collection and text processing workflows, which dramatically improves business intelligence and document handling. Boosting decision-making Armed with NLP capabilities, data scientists quickly and efficiently process raw data from emails, social media conversations, support requests, invoices, and other sources, obtaining key insights that become major guidelines for top decision-makers. Generating reports, descriptions, and summaries Machine learning algorithms fueling NLP software excel at natural language understanding and generation. Thanks to them, companies can produce various texts within predefined categories that their marketing strategies and shopfloor operations require. Augmenting customer satisfaction by individualizing experiences Top-notch customer data and customer sentiment analysis solutions enable companies to explore their clientele inside out and fine-tune their approaches correspondingly, personalizing their products and elevating customer support to a new level. Looking for NLP expertise? Contact our team for professional consulting. Send request Our natural language processing development services Vetted experts of DICEUS are highly competent in advanced NLP models, data science, most popular programming languages, and deep learning techniques to provide the best-in-class NLP development services related to such areas. Chatbot development Chatbots and virtual assistants have become indispensable NLP tools for companies aspiring to enter the major league of business in their field. We can craft first-rate software of this kind that will radically improve customer interactions with your organization by handling clients’ queries, offering product recommendations, dealing with support problems, and more. Speech recognition When implemented by our specialists, this NLP technology will enable software to understand and interpret human language in its oral form (and convert data obtained in that way into written speech if necessary). Such customized solutions can be leveraged in voice-based payment systems, shopping routines, touch-free appliances, task-management software, and the like. Document processing We build effective NLP solutions that conduct a comprehensive analysis of text data written documents contain. First, such tools extract data from various sources. After data acquisition, they perform an entire complex of data management and processing jobs, such as named entity recognition and entity extraction, data annotation, relationship extraction, sentiment analysis, text classification and summarization, etc. Custom NLP solutions If you have a specific use case for a customer support, workflow automation, or marketing NLP solution, our NLP application development experts will create a unique product tailored to dovetail with your organization’s requirements. It will significantly expand your business capabilities, improve customer service, and increase the efficiency of your workforce. Where is NLP technology applied? Being cutting-edge know-how, natural language processing is widely utilized across multiple industries. Healthcare Physicians and clinical personnel leverage NLP to analyze patients’ records, process critical data related to disease histories, lab test results, treatment plans, etc., generate reports and explanations, and more. NLP-driven hospital chatbots are instrumental in appointment scheduling, self-diagnosing, collecting patient feedback, etc. Insurance NLP integration into insurance software allows insurance agents to streamline and facilitate client onboarding, claim processing, policy renewal, internal pipeline management, fraud detection and prevention, customer service personalization, and other aspects of their pipeline routine. Retail and e-commerce Here, NLP tools sift through many customer reviews, product descriptions, and other related texts to understand consumer tastes, preferences, and purchasing habits. Then, they generate individualized product recommendations and fine-tune advertisement campaigns, thus augmenting customer experience and fostering brand loyalty. Banking and finance This sector benefits from embracing NLP for financial document classification and analysis, investment research, credit assessment and loan underwriting, transaction monitoring, portfolio management, compliance and risk assessment, stock market predictions, and boosting customer support. Manufacturing and logistics Personnel in these domains use NLP software to dig deep into shop floor documents, enabling employees to process manufacturing data, handle warranty claims, deal with supplier contracts, streamline inventory management, optimize supply chain, analyze customer feedback, and more. Education By enhancing existing systems with NLP, teachers can automatically classify their learning materials and analyze student data to perfectly match learners’ knowledge level with the course content. Also, educators can create various quizzes, tutorials, or other controlling tasks and automate result assessment. Natural Language Processing Use Cases Pinch and spread for zoom Our NLP development process When developing NLP applications, we stick to a six-step SDLC roadmap. Discovery phase Before we set to work, our representatives meet with the customer to learn the problem they face, the project’s objectives, and the business and technical requirements for the solution-to-be. We also analyze the partner’s business and niche to discover its specifics, market conditions, existing competition, and target audience. Product feasibility assessment With all relevant data on our table, our team conducts feasibility research to understand whether the NLP solution the customer wants to obtain will be able to address the problem in question. We make sure the company has sufficient amount of relevant high-quality data to train an NLP model, and see whether the envisaged budget will cover the project expenditures. Planning If the product has all the prerequisites for successful implementation, we create a detailed project plan documenting every detail – from infrastructure requirements and team composition to tech stack, delivery schedule, and communication channels. Development and integration Now, we are ready to bring the outlined plan to life. This process comprises several stages (wireframing, building the proof of concept, MVP development), with the full-fledged solution as a key deliverable. Then, the completed solution is integrated into our customers’ current IT environment. Testing The entire ecosystem with the NLP solution as its pivotal element is submitted to an out-and-out checking procedure consisting of multiple test types (unit, functional, usability, performance, regression, compatibility, and the like) to ensure its smooth operation and bug-free functioning. Deployment and support Finally, the NLP product is launched and goes live. As a responsible vendor, DICEUS stays with our customers during the first stages of software operation to optimize its performance, tweak its functioning, introduce updates, answer users’ questions, and address complaints, if any. Our tech stack About us 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Why choose DICEUS With the wealth of IT vendors in the outsourcing market, it is often hard to choose a competent company whose natural language processing services are a perfect fit for your requirements and wallet size. By partnering with DICEUS, you will hit the bull’s eye because: We have a seasoned pool of experts . Most of them have worked together for 13+ years, during which they have accumulated vast technical experience and learned to work as a single organism, where each member contributes to the mission’s overall success. We have expertise across a range of industries. DICEUS has delivered dozens of solutions for insurance, fintech, banking, logistics, retail, healthcare, and other enterprises, so we know the nitty-gritty of their workflows from top to bottom. Innovation is our middle name. Our software engineers and designers are avid learners, continuing to acquire new knowledge and skills in the dynamic digital landscape of the early third millennium and leveraging this expertise in the projects we implement. Personalization is our chief priority. It refers both to the high level of solution customization, enabling them to dovetail with the customer’s requirements, and our flexibility in meeting our partners halfway regarding cooperation models, communication sessions, and contract terms. Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Related services Chatbot development Mobile app development Computer vision FAQ What are Natural Language Processing (NLP) services, and how can they benefit businesses? NLP is an AI-driven technology that can understand, interpret, and process natural language data. Thanks to it, companies across multiple industry verticals can automate data handling operations, classify various documents, analyze consumer feedback, and set up advanced chatbots that improve customer service and augment customer experience. What NLP applications does DICEUS specialize in? We can craft any custom NLP products that cover all the needs of an enterprise with this kind of software. However, our particular areas of expertise are chatbot development, speech recognition system implementation, and document processing solution creation. Which industries benefit from DICEUS’s NLP services? We have a long success story of cooperating with fintech, banking, healthcare, retail, logistics, and construction organizations. But our focus industry is insurance, where we have a Vitaminise chatbot as a turnkey NLP-powered solution. It is an excellent speech recognition tool that can dramatically boost customer service and improve your interaction with the clientele. How can custom NLP solutions support business? When you acquire off-the-shelf NLP products, you get a garden-variety solution that may contain some features you will never need or use but have to pay for. By commissioning bespoke NLP software, you will surely get a highly customized product honed for a particular use case and meet your unique technical and business requirements. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman