Banking data warehouse development Need a data warehouse for banking? DICEUS offers end-to-end banking data warehouse development services, starting with a discovery phase and ending with testing and deployment. Send your request Calculate project budget Banking data warehouse development involves services that help banks build more effective processes for data collection, processing, storage, exchange, analysis, etc. The main objectives of DWH software are gathering information from various sources and converting it into valuable insights. Through the right technology, we help banks use their data as efficiently as possible. Our expertise in software engineering for the banking sector allows us to build, upgrade, and modernize DWH solutions, and make them addressing your current and future organizational needs. We are one of the data warehouse consulting companies focused on overcoming your challenges with data ubiquity, the large volume of information, and new customer demands. Our team knows how to harness predictive analytics and big data to help your organization make data-driven decisions and accurate forecasts of future customer behavior and demands. DWH infografic Pinch and spread for zoom DWH for reporting and analysis DWH solutions reduce the time needed to prepare financial and managerial information, report, and conduct cost-benefit analyses. Along with this, they give the following benefits: Minimizing errors in administrative and financial reports Quick access to information Multivariate data analysis Accurate forecasts Cost-benefit analyses of branches, new products, or services Customer profitability segmentation DWH for credit risk management DWH software can significantly help banks govern their risks in the following areas: Non-payment monitoring Forecasting of effects on the credit policy Prediction of credit usage structure Direct credits abuse Data warehouse for retail target marketing A holistic view of the bank’s clients helps improve customer retention and attraction. DWH solutions offer excellent capabilities to gain a 360-degree view of your customers by gathering in-depth analytics on behavioral patterns, historical and real-time data, and other data pertaining to marketing purposes. New markets analysis Customer behavior analysis Marketing campaigns assessment Client-product matrix Personalized offering Cross and up-selling Relational database for data warehousing Banks need relational databases when they plan for their data warehouse to grow. They ensure flexibility and scalability to support a large volume of data and the following capabilities: Customer segmentation Risk modeling Customer demands identification Data warehouse development We provide data warehouse services to build DWH solutions for banks, including the development of the following features: Data collection mechanisms Data storage Data aggregation, data marts Analytical data processing User access rights Data visualization Documents flow Software-defined storage (SDS) development We design, develop, and implement software solutions for extract, transform, and load (ETL) processes, data quality management (DQM), and data masking. Automated data management APIs for managing, allocating, and releasing resources Virtualization of data access Storage infrastructure Storage resources monitoring and management Data warehouse consulting and upgrade We consult our clients on custom and existing DWH solutions and licenses in accordance with your current and future needs and challenges: DWH software upgrade, customization, modernization Consulting on DWH product licensing Business analyses and functional requirements DWH Pinch and spread for zoom Banking data warehouse development Pinch and spread for zoom Free consultation on a custom data warehouse in banking Book a call Benefits of data warehouse in banking Data warehouse providers allow modern banks to address many challenges related to data quality and management. Custom or modernized DWH solutions can help you overcome these challenges faster and get quick ROI. Below are the most frequent issues that can be solved by implementing the right DWH technology. Reduced costs DWH solutions enable the right support for several disparate data systems, which was earlier expensive when using legacy data storage systems. Data preparation time will also be reduced. Data consistency Resolve the challenges of unstructured data, minimize errors in operational and financial data, and improve data accuracy. DWH allows you to organize all banking information and get a single view of your business. High scalability With legacy data storage systems in place, there is definitely a lack of potential for data volume growth. Modern data warehousing solutions ensure high scalability and the right business continuity. Quick access Among other advantages data warehouse development services can bring to your bank are seamless access to data and increased customer attraction and loyalty due to improved customer service. Data warehouse in banking industry requires continuous modernization. Write to us if you need to upgrade your DWH. Write to us About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our data warehousing development process DWH infografic Pinch and spread for zoom We have a well-established procedure for data warehouse development that consists of the following stages: Business and functional analysis We gather, formalize, and prioritize requirements from all stakeholders. Detailed requirements for data marts, reporting, and data migration are further formalized according to the project roadmap. Next, we create a functional specification and a banking data warehouse model. It may include, but is not limited to, the following: data marts, reporting, procedures and algorithms for data loading and storing, data cleansing procedures, data quality control, and other procedures. Design and development We are data warehouse solution providers who can build and modernize DWH for your organization. First, we prepare the client’s IT infrastructure for implementing the project and perform data cleansing, enrichment, and quality management procedures. Next, we develop data storage and data marts, and finally, we set up the tools for analytics and reporting. Deployment and implementation The implementation stage includes data migration, testing, data cleansing, enrichment, and the implementation itself. We also provide user training, maintenance, and support. What impacts your project duration Every DWH differs from another as well as the challenges our customers face differ. Thus, we apply the critical path analysis to calculate the minimum time required to complete it. Combined with a Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), this approach allows us to inform the client about the approximate completion date. However, based on our experience, such projects take from 6 to 18 months. The following factors affect the duration, as well: The complexity and scope of the project The type of services you need (development from scratch, modernization, upgrade) The nature of the issues you have The kind of DWH solution you need (ready-made, custom) What affects your project costs The project’s cost depends on many factors. A more accurate price is possible to get when you contact us directly. After a series of sessions with all the stakeholders and an understanding of your top-level requirements, we would be more accurate about the price. Here are some factors affecting the estimation: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team The cost of the DWH platform What we need from your side Data Warehouse development or modernization requires deep involvement of the bank’s business and IT departments. It is needed to correctly gather all the requirements and understand the real challenges associated with data quality, consistency, and management. Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available, for example, a test strategy or test cases Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Banking Data governance project for a bank Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Banking IT staff augmentation for Raiffeisen Bank’s IT projects Banking POC for Raiffeisen Bank self‑service terminal development Banking Blockchain-based crypto wallet for ICO and crowdsales Frequently asked questions What is a data warehouse development service for banking? Data warehouse development is actually a custom engineering project aimed at delivering a DWH solution that will fit your business needs, follow your business logic, and process your organizational data as you need it. What is data warehouse service, and how will it help me? Data warehousing services are provided for companies that would like to improve data integrity and data quality management by structuring and organizing their information using the latest technology solutions. Why choose DICEUS for data warehousing development services? We provide data warehouse development services for banks and financial institutions with a deep understanding of your core business processes. Our team has experience building DWH for a few banks — all these projects were delivered successfully. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman