Mobile application testing services Get started What we offer According to Deloitte, all of us use at least four to five mobile applications every day. We can monitor a lot of things using apps – check what the weather is like today and track the payment we made yesterday. Mobile applications have become a driving force to grow and develop for most businesses today. And what becomes more important is providing secure and user-friendly services with these apps. That’s why it is crucial to perform all necessary types of testing before letting your mobile app go live. Here is what we provide for tech companies and enterprise-level organizations in terms of mobile app testing. Mobile application testing company Pinch and spread for zoom We are an application testing company with a comprehensive approach and methodology. By providing a variety of testing that covers security, functionality, usability, performance, and compatibility, our team has already earned the trust of many companies working in various sectors like healthcare, banking, insurance, logistics, retail, etc. For every software development project, we develop a unique strategy to meet its needs and industry specifics. So, rest assured as our QA team will align test goals with business requirements, identify key performance indicators and test acceptance criteria, prioritize test scenarios, and match the testing approach with the entire software development life cycle. Get started Mobile app testing services Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of DICEUS mobile app testing services Today, the mobile landscape is growing more rapidly than ever. With a variety of mobile devices, operating systems, browsers, it becomes vital to develop more and more testing scenarios. Functional and non-functional requirements, especially for commercial applications, should be carefully considered, as well. We are among a few mobile app testing companies to provide specialized services, including API tests, testing of microservices and mobile enterprise systems, and many more. Technology expertise Apart from online mobile app testing services, we provide custom, web, and mobile development, system integration, legacy system modernization, software audit, software support, and a lot of other IT-related services. That means you can outsource mobile testing along with any other services required for your project in one place. Besides, we have vast expertise in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, the Internet of Things, Robotic Process Automation, etc. So, we can help you empower your application with any of these technologies. Comprehensive services We are one of the top mobile testing companies that offer such a wide range of mobile app development services, including cross-platform development, corporate app development, finance app development, game development, healthcare app development, extensions for web apps, iOS/Android app development, and many more. Testing can be delivered as part of the mobile development project scope and as a separate managed service. Specialized tests Usually, app testing companies offer a standard set of services that include the most widespread types of mobile app testing. Here at DICEUS, we understand that a traditional approach doesn’t work for all. That is why we practice the development of custom testing strategies for specific or complex projects, for example, mobile banking, mobile ERP system, open banking testing, etc. Please reach us out to get free consulting on your unique project. Test automation Automation can significantly reduce a mobile app testing cycle and shorten the software engineering life cycle, respectively. Along with manual tests, which are an integral part of mobile development, our team provides automated testing, especially for complex projects. Our specialists will define if your project needs automation and what ROI it can potentially bring if adopted. Mobile application testing process DICEUS is a mobile application testing company to ensure that your mobile application features align with requirements. We will discover your project and identify both functional and non-functional requirements, create a test strategy, write and execute all necessary scenarios, and provide you with regular reporting. Analysis We start mobile app testing with a discovery phase, where our QA specialists define the process, the right approach, and tools they will use. Next, we create a strategy and discuss service-level agreement conditions along with all needed metrics. Knowledge While defining and setting up the process, we develop a comprehensive strategy. Our engineers discover all existing processes if you have any and make up the team. From the client’s side, we will need all available project data and knowledge transfer. Execution The scope of mobile app testing services includes environment setup, test scenarios writing and execution, testing data gathering, reporting, etc. If you have any unique requirements, we will take those into account. Optimization Mobile apps are regularly upgraded, which means that continuous quality assurance is a common thing. Once your application is released, we offer maintenance and support services, including user feedback gathering and auditing. That will help you keep the application up-to-date. Get started What impacts your project duration Mobile application testing services are usually delivered as long as your app is being developed. Here are the primary things affecting the project duration. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Type of service What affects your project costs The project cost is affected by the number and types of tests provided. The following things also impact on the prices. Scope and complexity of your project Chosen QA tools Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team Type of testing What we need from your side From the client’s side, we need a knowledge transfer and all testing data if it is available. Here is a list of other important stuff we need from our clients. Project objectives High-level requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Your time to discuss and formalize requirements Expected project deadlines Our tech stack Get started Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Frequently asked questions How to test the performance of a mobile app? To check the mobile app’s performance, testers usually use various tools, such as JMeter, Gatling, BlazeMeter, and many more. For mobile app testing, we select the right testing tools that fit best for your specific product. What are mobile app testing services? Mobile app testing services we provide include tests to check usability, performance, functionality, compliance, compatibility, etc. The scope of our service includes analysis, planning, test strategy, etc. How much does it take to test a mobile app? The time needed to test a mobile application depends on many factors, including the project complexity and scope, the QA approach we use, the need to write automation tests, etc. From your side, we will need access to all testing data available. Similar services Mobile app development Cross-platform mobile development Enterprise mobile application development services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman