Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Services provided Software audit Web app development DevOps Software support System integration Legacy app modernization Expertise used Artificial intelligence Industry Compliance Project overview Our customer, Lapin International, offers a unique approach to improving business performance by integrating value-based leadership principles into the company’s culture. Lapin has a multi-stage process during which their customers pass a survey to uncover true life values and personal qualities that contribute to business and human dynamics, facilitating business success. For this process, Lapin uses a Digital Fingerprint Tool – a web application with an in-built ChatGPT that generates custom questions and analyzes answers. It also provides an overview of users’ life values, philosophy, triggers, and archetypes – all with explanations. The results provided by the Digital Fingerprint Tool are shared with the customer and analyzed during group sessions with Lapin consultants. Client Lapin International Team 3 members Country United States of America Duration 2 years (Ongoing since 2023) Client information Lapin is a strategy and leadership consulting firm that helps businesses elevate teams’ performance. Lapin has a unique process to identify customers’ purpose and values and offer a respective leadership strategy, bridging the gap between an individual and the business shared values. Business challenge Lapin’s solution needed improvement to become more effective in providing data for further analysis. Our team integrated ChatGPT and made several enhancements to transform the Digital Fingerprint Tool into a modern marketing tool. Besides, we continuously provide maintenance and support services. Technical challenges The key challenge was integrating ChatGPT using Python, which also involved adjusting prompts for better user screening and qualification. We also established custom QA and testing processes, implemented cost-effective tools, and shaped Backlog. There was a need to cover Arizona time zone in case of emergency requests when users passed a survey on the platform. Solution delivered Digital Fingerprint Tool is a web application used by Lapin within their multi-stage process of discovering customers’ life values, and principles to offer a strategy for business performance improvement. We integrated ChatGPT to generate 10 life values, value drivers, triggers, archetypes, and shape values philosophy to make the solution more effective. Maintenance, improvements, and support services were provided. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features ChatGPT-driven value discovery AI-powered questionnaires dynamically generate tailored prompts, analyze user responses, and uncover personal values, triggers, and archetypes. Personalized insights engine Produces a structured values profile — including 10 life values, value drivers, philosophy, and behavioral patterns — ready for consultant review. Modern, scalable web platform Rebuilt front- and backend with React, Node.js, Python, and MySQL, ensuring fast performance, reliability, and simple future expansion. Integrated consultant workflow Automatically packages insights for group sessions, improving preparation quality and streamlining consultant–client interactions. Value to our client Clearer life values profile ChatGPT-powered, adaptive questionnaires generate tailored prompts and analyze responses to surface clearer value profiles. It improves lead quality, speeds up handoffs to consultants, and raises conversion rates. Values-to-strategy bridge The tool identifies 10 life values, value drivers, triggers, archetypes, and philosophy, then packages insights for group sessions. The solution turns personal data into actionable, values-aligned leadership strategies. Monetizable platform Subscription-based questionnaires and consultant upsells create new revenue streams, while modernization and ongoing support ensure reliability across time zones and scalable operations. Our tech stack React NodeJS Python MySQL Nest.js ChatGPT Docker Azure DevOps Jira Postman MongoDB Sentry Our other cases Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Financial services Software Audit for Wilson & Franco Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman