Retail app development DICEUS provides retail app development services that include custom software engineering and integration of ready-made systems. Discuss requirements If you are searching for retail app development, you are at the right place. At DICEUS, we develop secure, scalable applications for retail businesses that adhere to best CX practices. Our apps are built to automate your operations, improve customer engagement, and help your business transform digitally. We help retail companies build solutions to effectively manage their everyday operations, interact with customers across various digital channels, and sell products. These solutions provide key functionalities, including e-commerce, payment processing, inventory management, customer loyalty programs, and personalized shopping experiences. Our retail app development services Retail enterprise apps DICEUS is a seasoned provider of retail app development that has been delivering applications of various complexity for middle-sized and large businesses. We have a pool of savvy, experienced specialists who know how to create high-performing, intuitive, inviting retail solutions with market-defining design and development techniques. We can help you tackle any retail niche and outrun your competitors with an app that runs smoothly, motivates users to make convenient purchases online, and makes your business management easier. Retail apps for startups The market of modern startups is rich with fierce competition, making it quite tricky for entirely new projects seeking recognition in their target niche. You can start impressing potential users and customers with an outstanding retail software solution to boost your promotional powers. A high-quality retail app indicates a serious-minded, customer-focused retail startup. This is why, at DICEUS, we heavily focus on elaborating our e-commerce development techniques, honing our team skills, and delivering top-of-the-line products. In-store retail apps The modern age of technology and all-around Internet connection gives us great business-boosting opportunities to explore. Are you looking to reinforce your brick-and-mortar store’s productivity and convenience to increase sales? We have professionals to help you equip it with a versatile in-store retail solution. It will allow customers to shop at your store in full comfort while browsing through the whole assortment of your offers and readily getting all the information they need via a fast, responsive, automated app. E-commerce apps Regarding retail application development, DICEUS has a well-formed stack of e-commerce technologies and tools which, combined with the expertise and experience of our specialists, help us achieve the sturdiest, smoothest-running software solutions at reasonable costs. We build everything from basic one-page stores to full-on online shops with any extent of assortment to online marketplaces. With profiled consulting among our primary services, we can also point you in the most cost-efficient, business-boosting direction when building a new app. retail app development 1 Pinch and spread for zoom retail app development 2 Pinch and spread for zoom Ready to discuss your project with our experts? Send request Must-have features for retail applications Our custom retail app development services ensure the selection of functionalities required by customer business. These features are divided into customer-facing and internal-use features. Integration with emerging technologies like IoT devices for smart inventory management or AI for dynamic pricing is possible, as well. Below are essential features: Multi-factor authentication Product browsing and search Personalized recommendations Shopping history and wish lists Multiple payment options Integration with loyalty programs Order tracking and notifications Chatbots Social sharing and reviews Inventory management Point-of-Sale integration Employee management Data analytics and reporting Marketing automation Customer relationship management Secure payment gateways Benefits of retail app development with us DICEUS has been providing retail mobile app development solutions and related services for years, building a firm professional foundation to guarantee high-quality collaboration and end products. We offer flexible cooperation opportunities with major workflow models, project-specific approaches, and structured development. Our backbone is our savvy professionals, who are willing and ready to take on a project of any scope and complexity to give you genuinely efficient results. Expertise Our developers possess not only profound engineering skills but also a good understanding of the retail industry. Knowledge of key retail business processes and challenges is crucial in building the right solution. We will choose the right tech stack and offer the most suitable software architecture according to your business goals and requirements. Business analysis We recommend starting any project with a Discovery Phase as it ensures smooth, risk-free project development. After this phase, our customers get software requirements specification, recommended team composition and tech stack, project roadmap, software architecture design, risk evaluation and mitigation plan, and other valuable deliverables. Regular reporting One of the major philosophies of our retail mobile app development practice is keeping everything as transparent as possible. By constantly keeping you in the know, we can achieve the best results, precisely matching your requirements and exceeding your expectations with the final product we deliver. For this, we maintain regular reporting on all big and small patches of the project completion. Quality assurance DICEUS professionals also know firsthand the importance of thorough testing of finished solutions. This is why we don’t limit the testing phase only to technical manual and automated tests. We have a separate department of QA specialists that help make sure the built app can satisfy the needs of target users in practice without putting them off with UI/UX flaws. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our retail app development process Discovery phase No matter the project’s type, scope, and purpose, the kick-off phase is project discovery, where our specialists get to know the client and their vision of the future product. This is where we discuss all the deal-making specifics, gather requirements, settle the workflow aspects, outline major milestones, conduct preliminary market and competitor research, and settle all other prep stage specifics to kick off the smoothest workflow. Development With all the preliminary information and a clear product vision, we immediately start the complex technical part of the project – software development. This stage usually consists of two big efforts – design and development. First, we outline the structure and design the foundation of the product. Then, we fill the carcass with functionality and set all features in motion by hardcoding certain parts and integrating others. Testing The crucial finalizing stage of retail application development of any size and shape is thorough testing. We have separate teams of testing and QA specialists that combine manual and automated tests and conduct quality assurance testing via honed user perspective-driven techniques. This allows us to thoroughly polish products before launching them into public use and avoid many headaches related to a flawed finished solution. Deployment Last but not least, the important finalizing stage is that we don’t drop your project right after completing all the software. We also help you most properly deploy it in the required operational environment. This can be integration with a bigger system, publication in an app marketplace, or launch of an app in any other manner you need. With deployment handled by specialists, you can eliminate and avoid numerous post-launch tech issues. Need to develop a custom app from scratch? Get started Our SDLC Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance What impacts your project duration Projects of different complexity, purpose, and scope take different amounts of time to complete. We do everything we can to accelerate the process. These are the factors that directly affect the ultimate duration of your project. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs Project budgeting is also an individual aspect. We can help you calculate your project’s most closely appropriate end costs. But you can already keep in mind that the following factors influence the project’s final price. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side As a qualified retail app development company, DICEUS is responsible for completing the full-cycle project. We put our expertise and experience into delivering guaranteed high quality. Here’s what input you can provide to help us achieve even better results. Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing Our tech stack Explore our retail app development case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions Can you help us choose the right technology stack? DICEUS employs specialists with a wide range of expertise in various retail software development tools. Collaborating with us, you get instant access to a professional tech stack. Indeed, we will help you select the tools that are most fitting for your specific needs, requirements, and other project nuances. Do you provide IT consulting for retail app development? Yes, we have a separate department of IT consulting specialists focused on sharing insightful knowledge with clients and their teams. We can help guide your project in the most proper, long-term, and efficient direction based on the knowledge we have accumulated over a decade of professional operation in ecommerce software development. Why are custom retail apps better than ready-made ones? Creating a custom solution closely tailored to the specific needs and requirements of the client and project is an opportunity to build something unique to distribute your products. With a custom approach, we can develop an app with any type and number of features you wish, with an authentic design that perfectly translates particular business attributes and styles. Similar industry Retail E-commerce apps Custom software development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman