Logistics software development Speak with our expert Our logistics application development services and solutions logistics software Pinch and spread for zoom Supply chain management Our logistics software development company offers custom solutions and system integration of SAP and Oracle solutions for logistics companies and retailers. The latter are considered the best supply management software on the market, providing efficient warehousing, distribution, and fulfillment. Learn more Fleet management We are a transportation software development company to help you enhance your fleet management with the right technology solutions enriched with the following features: real-time shipment monitoring, vehicle maintenance overview, customer service and support, automatic updates, etc. Learn more Warehouse management We build and integrate all types of warehouse management software: standalone applications, supply chain modules, cloud-based systems, and enterprise resource management systems. You can choose any type depending on your business maturity, current and future needs. Learn more Transportation management We leverage the latest technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), robotic process automation (RPA), internet of things (IoT) to build or upgrade transportation management platforms. Our team is prepared to help you meet the most pressing challenges of the logistics industry. Learn more Last-mile delivery Our logistics app development company develops last mile delivery software with a wide range of features: real-time tracking, delivery rescheduling, proof of delivery, dashboards, route optimizations, and many more. We will develop the software that fits your last mile delivery logic. Learn more With the evolution of the retail industry with e-commerce sales growing rapidly, the logistics industry is changing. In particular, it faces new challenges as well as opportunities associated with the continuously increasing number of online purchases that should be dispatched and delivered to consumers on time. At the same time, online retailers are actively developing their services to tap into the logistics sector directly and widen their supply chain. Logistics software development services can come in handy to both logistics companies and retailers. Using the latest technology advancements, you could reduce transportation costs, improve operations and customer service, and many more. Speak with our expert According to Statista By 2024, global freight volume is forecast to surge from 54.69 billion tons (2015) to 92.1 billion tons. Trends in the transportation market affect this high increase in volume. According to Deloitte Transport and logistics organizations are exploring new ways to compete. Mobile technologies used for engaging with customers, cybersecurity tools to protect systems, and data analytics are three of the most important areas of investment. According to EY Procurement professionals should look to assess category strategies that balance cost and risk starting from new product model/platform planning to day-to-day procurement operations, leveraging technology to support rapid response. According to Accenture In fact, 74% of freight and logistics executives believe the stakes for innovation have never been higher, and getting it right will require new ways of innovating with ecosystem partners. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Key advantages to choose DICEUS for transportation software development Strong logistics expertise The development and integration of any modern logistics software require strong expertise in trending technologies. Our teams have experience building cloud-hosted, web, and mobile applications for logistics businesses to guarantee you concrete business values and high-quality outcomes. Guaranteed business value Logistics is a complex industry that needs a serious approach to planning, executing, testing, and implementing industry-specific software. We start cooperation with in-depth business analysis to discover the most pressing technical issues, gaps and challenges your business faces. Based on the finding, we will propose to you the most suitable solution. High-quality solutions To ensure the highest quality of software solution, we established a well-defined quality assurance process that suggests starting the testing stage as early as possible. Also, we use SonarQube, code reviews, and cross-reviews to detect and fix bugs on time. Full-service development Here at DICEUS, we offer logistics mobile app development, web solutions, cloud-based solutions, UI/UX and design, all types of manual and automated testing, system integration, legacy system modernization and many other IT services so that you can acquire any in one place. Our logistics software development process We are result-oriented and focused on delivering your logistics software project on time, spec, and budget. For that, we have a well-organized development and quality assurance process with all quality standards followed and metrics measured. It starts with a discovery phase, and goes on with design, development, testing, and deployment. Here is how this process works. Discovery phase In the discovery stage, we explore your business logic, challenges, and consider initial project requirements to create a Work Breakdown Structure and the right project strategy. You will be involved in the requirements gathering sessions at least for several hours per week. Only then can we identify your needs precisely and come up with the best-suited solution for your business challenges. Development phase The design and development phases make up the major part of the project scope. That is when and where all required functionalities will be developed. For a smooth development process, all teams are managed by PMI-certified project managers that can clearly communicate the requirements, coordinate collaboration and communication between stakeholders and the team. Testing phase Our test engineers are experienced in all types of manual and automated testing to ensure that interfaces of end products are user-friendly, data is processed securely, functionalities work as expected, and you get the software that brings you the promised business values. The testing strategy is developed and formalized at the beginning of the project. Deployment phase To implement logistics software solutions successfully, we need to check your IT environment before the deployment. In case any gaps or technical issues are detected, we will send you the list of recommendations to fix those. The deployment is performed by the client-side employees; however, we can support this process if needed. Support and maintenance We offer multi-tier technical support options and maintenance services. You might require some if you need continuous support for the deployed software, some additional features, version upgrade, or other. Feel free to consult us for more detailed consulting on software support options. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Explore our case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Logistics A fleet management application for soldier trucking Frequently asked questions How to hire logistics and transportation app development teams? We recommend paying attention to some trusted resources like Clutch, Good Firms, or Capterra that have a lot of software development company listings. There, you can search for a needed type of service or solution using various filters. We also offer our professional logistics software development services and a free 30-minute consulting related to your IT project. Which type of logistics and transportation software do you build? We build and integrate supply chain management software (SCM), last mile delivery solutions, warehouse management systems, transportation and fleet management solutions. Besides, we have expertise in blockchain, artificial intelligence, the internet of things, and robotic process automation to deliver the next-generation applications for logistics. How much time will it take you to develop my logistics software? The duration of any project depends on its scope and complexity, that’s is why we can tell you the average time only once we know all your requirements. The more features you would like to develop or integrate, the more time required to complete the project. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman