Offshore web development Hire offshore developers Offshore web development services Today, having a website or a web app with a user-friendly and intuitive user experience is a must-have for any business. It’s the best way to present your products and services in the most attractive manner and make consumers love your company and brand. Offshore web development services allow companies to delegate web development to professionals overseas and save both time and money. We have expert offshore web developers onboard that will build a web app or a website for you on time, on scope, and within your budget. Here’s what we offer. Offshore web development company | DICEUS Pinch and spread for zoom UI/UX design Any website starts with design. However, you shouldn’t think that design is having beautiful images or colorful buttons only. It’s all about combining various skills like web graphic design, user experience research, user interface design, and many more to produce and maintain a website different from others and easy to use for your targeted audience. Our offshore web design specialists will create a unique presentation of your business so that you can get instant ROI in the first couple of months after going live. Front-end development Converting design into a graphical interface is the task of a front-end developer. Before the development, our team will provide a comprehensive project roadmap, including the choice of the appropriate tools and platforms so that you know what front-end developers will use: WordPress, Drupal, Joomla, HTML, CSS, or JavaScript, etc. Our goal is to deliver your web product in scope and terms you expect it. DICEUS’s front-end developers work closely with designers, back-end developers, and test engineers to produce a high-quality end product. Back-end development The back-end is the core of any website or application, and before proceeding to the development stage, you must have a clear understanding of the technology stack, resources, skills and other important things needed to get this job done appropriately. Our team gathers all functional and non-functional requirements to avoid unexpected troubles and change requests. You get a proposal with the best-suited technology stack, team composition, timeline, Work Breakdown Structure so that you know everything about how your product will be developed. CMS integration To maintain a website, fill it with proper content, blog articles, landing pages, and more, we’ll discuss what content management system is preferable to you and which one will meet your content management needs the best. Our offshore website development services include CMS choice (depending on the maturity of your business, it may be even a custom-built CMS for enterprises, for instance) and integration as well as integrations with different APIs that you might have to process payments, user requests, or other data. Our offshore web development company has more than ten years of experience creating custom websites and web applications for different industries. We pay special attention to testing and security of these web products. Testing is done by certified (often ISTQB-certified) QA engineers, while security measures and patches are implemented by web developers depending on your business specifics and compliance requirements to security. Unlike other offshore website development companies, we offer our clients cost-effective solutions. We don’t impose any features or technologies if we see they are redundant for your business logic. If we can avoid reinventing the wheel and see that we may use ready-made solutions to save your costs, we would offer you those solutions. Hire offshore developers Offshore web development services | DICEUS Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of offshore web application development By outsourcing offshore web development, you can benefit from flexible cooperation models, lower costs, the agility of development, and quick hiring. Besides, you can save time and money without compromising the quality of your software product. All developers that work in our company have Master’s degrees in computer science, most have middle and senior levels of seniority, and engineering expertise in several business domains. Flexible cooperation For your convenience, we offer two types of cooperation: staff augmentation and turnkey software development. The first one means you can hire as many developers as you need — fits best when you need to extend your in-house development team. The second model best works when you need end-to-end development managed by a PM from our side. Experienced developers No matter what type of cooperation you choose, staff augmentation of turnkey project development, we guarantee that all developers are highly skilled and experienced. Our technology stack is wide so that we can supply you with developers that have expertise in the required programming language or framework. Agile development Agile development allows for iterative stages and effective results. It also ensures faster time-to-market and better control of software product quality. Agile processes are especially instrumental in offshore web development for enterprises their projects can be quite complex, thus, requiring more efficient and set-up workflows. Mind, that we also practice Waterfall, Scrum and other methodologies that could be discussed beforehand. Guaranteed outcomes Our team is focused on high-quality project outcomes, which means we guarantee that our clients get what exactly they expect. We check this with the help of a traceability matrix that allows us to track how actual features match formalized requirements. In case you have any change requests, we have a well-organized change request management program allowing to quickly react to such requests and timely provide a plan of the next steps. Our offshore web development For more than 10 years, we have been practicing various project management methodologies and various approaches to building an effective software development life cycle. And today, we’ve got a well-defined process allowing both us and our clients to reach project goals faster, more productively, and within the budget. Business analysis Business analysis is critical to gather all the information about your project goals and objectives, expected outcomes, desired features and functionalities. Our BA specialists will explore your business or idea to offer a detailed list of features, with the best-suited technology stack. Design and development Our offshore web design company will create a custom design for your website or web app with regard to your targeted audience specifics. The design will be implemented further in front-end development and backed with functionality produced by back-end developers. Deployment Deployment is usually the task done on the client’s side but our team will help you prepare for this process. Our DevOps will explore your environment and infrastructure to identify any gaps that could prevent your product from successful deployment. Technical support After the project launch, you may need our assistance in maintaining and supporting your website or application. We provide technical support according to several scenarios so it’s not a problem to prolong our cooperation. Hire offshore developers What impacts your project duration The time to develop a website or web app usually depends on several factors. Project requirements Expected time-to-market Team composition Chosen technology Chosen methodology What affects your project costs Offshore web development cost depends on a few aspects of development which include the following things. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team Number of add-ons What we need from your side We kindly ask you to provide the following information to effectively collaborate on your web project. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, a test strategy or test cases Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Hire offshore developers Explore our case studies Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Frequently asked questions How to find an offshore web development vendor? There are three proven ways to find a reliable partner: ask for recommendations from your friends or partners, search on special ranking websites like Clutch or Good Firms, or shortlist vendors on your own using a well-grounded analysis and criteria matrix. What are the benefits of offshore web development? The most frequent reasons people choose to use offshore web development services are lower costs and a wide talent pool. In addition, you can get any IT-related service in one place: testing, legacy app modernization, data migration, software audit, and many more. What is the cost of offshore web development? The cost of any software development depends on many factors, including project complexity, scope, technology. Send us your requirements and we’ll come up with transparent estimation of your project. Besides, free strategy sessions are available upon your request. Similar services IT staff augmentation Mobile app development Web app development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman