Business intelligence services Speak with our BI specialist What we offer Harness business intelligence to turn your data into meaningful insights. We offer our expertise and BI services to develop custom software from scratch or modernize your existing analytics platforms. Modern intelligence business solutions allow more employees to access and use the required information to make data-driven decisions. BI & reporting solutions give organizations advanced analysis tools with opportunities for self-service while acquiring business data. So, users can process and analyze data independently when they need it. Besides, BI software enables business groups to make future forecasts using predictive analytics capabilities. Ultimately, today’s business intelligence software tools allow companies to analyze various data types, including third-party, unstructured, and multi-structured data sets. Business Intelligence services Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of business intelligence services We are one of the business intelligence software companies to tackle your challenges using technology to help you gain maximum growth and revenue. Our experts will consult you on the best way to get maximum values from implementing business intelligence software. The advantages include higher business efficiency, better risk management, easy data quality control, and customization capabilities. Learn more about the benefits here or contact us for free consulting. Enhance business efficiency We are one of the business intelligence solution providers that help companies in various industries improve their operational efficiency by implementing the latest BI tools and technologies or upgrading the existing ones. While processing a large volume of mixed data types, you can find better ways to enhance customer experience and retention, marketing, operations. BI and reporting solutions gather valuable insights on user behavioral patterns, employees’ internal communication, and other data. Improve risk management Business intelligence solutions help companies monitor risk compliance and make data-driven decisions. The BI tools are also applied for fraud inspections like monitoring fraudulent user behavior and detecting suspicious patterns. We are one of the business intelligence services companies that develops predictive analytics solutions to make accurate forecasts of market demands and trends to mitigate various risks. Control data quality We are business intelligence service providers to help companies organize data efficiently. Our solutions focus on providing comprehensive insights on financial and operational data, improving decision making, automating reporting, saving time and costs for analysis. We also build data warehouses combined with BI tools for better data aggregation and processing. Implement custom BI software Improve your business processes and data quality by adopting custom BI software. We are one of the business intelligence firms to offer our BI expertise, including data visualization, 360-degree customer view and business systems, predictive analytics, custom platforms, and many others. We start BI development projects with in-depth business analysis to uncover your real challenges and develop the right technology solution. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our business intelligence software solutions Enrich your organization with intelligent custom solutions built with your needs and requirements in mind. Predictive analytics and data mining Custom business intelligence service solutions complement BI and reporting tools to generate new data, monitor dependencies and patterns, make forecasts of prices, revenue, ROI, market demands, and many more. We can help you assess what challenges to address with data analytics and which technology and tools to choose for this purpose. Data warehousing and ETL processes We provide custom warehouse development services to help businesses improve data aggregation, storage, processing, and analysis. Our expertise includes Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) patterns, data marts, 360-degree view systems. We also offer DWH modernization and upgrade according to your specific needs. Data visualization and self-service BI Gain a holistic view of your valuable data with custom software solutions for data visualization. We design and build user-friendly dashboards that gather information from disparate sources, and convert it into critical reporting and analysis insights. We have experience building self-service BI systems that simplify the work with data and allow users to access the required data and analyze it when they need it. BI consulting and software audit We offer BI consulting and software audits to analyze your current technology state and identify areas that can be improved with business intelligence application solutions. Our analysts discover the best ways you can utilize data to seize new business opportunities. Afterword, they deliver a comprehensive roadmap and strategy. Examples of dashboards we can develop Wealth management dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Arrest incidents dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Insurtech dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Homerun auto-insights dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Stock history executive dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Reports dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Customer data dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom What impacts your project duration The time your business intelligence project will last depends mostly on the factors mentioned below. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition The chosen technologies and platforms Customization time What affects your project costs Traditionally, we consider the list of things below to estimate the BI and reporting project cost. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team Chosen platform What we need from your side First off, we need your requirements. We appreciate it if you provide as much information about the project as possible. So, send us any documentation and data you consider to be valuable for cost and time estimation and project planning. Check out the other things we may need and feel free to ask questions if any. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Frequently asked questions What is business intelligence software service? Business intelligence software service aims to develop a custom BI system that will help your organization address many challenges and improve efficiency, collaboration, employee and customer satisfaction by harmonizing your processes. What is business intelligence used for? Business intelligence is used to present to organizations effective datum management, better decision-making, more accurate reporting. We will help you create a custom BI system according to your business goals and requirements. How do business intelligence solutions work? Each custom business intelligence solution works as it was designed to work to meet end-user needs. We build data warehouses, data mining solutions, predictive analytics solutions, self-service BI, and other applications that can ease your everyday business activities. Similar expertise Data warehouse and ETL Robotics process automation (RPA) Big data Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman