Wearable app development services and solutions Get consulting on wearables What we offer Right now, wearables are blooming. Over 30% of smartphone owners believe they’ll have at least five different wearable gadgets by the end of this year. And 43% think that these systems will replace smartphones at all. Wearable app development is a sphere that empowers and makes possible these advancements. Without apps, watch and glasses would be lifeless hardware. Our wearable app development company offers 360-degree support for your business. In a nutshell, we study your idea, suggest the best implementation options, create apps, test them, and deploy to kickstart new iWatch or Oculus Rift. Here are the main tasks of our wearable app developers: Wearable app development services and solutions Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits from wearable app development services As a wearable device app development company, we focus on top-notch services and projects. If you’re a visioner with innovative ideas of t-shirts that change prints or smart glasses that let you see through walls, welcome! Well, all other entrepreneurs and companies are welcome, too, as we love all our clients and want them to succeed. What about the benefits of wearables? Here they are. Limitless futuristic opportunities The world of wearables is promising. Soon, we’re going to use them everywhere, from daily life to major financial transactions. That’s why it’s a smart idea to invest in this sphere now. Interconnected everything We’re not only a wearable device app development company, but we also handle IoT projects. This tech can revolutionize all industries, connect edge gadgets, data storages, and humans. Reduced costs and other expenses Thanks to wearables, your projects and teams can save tons of money and time. Just imaging direct management via your glasses or optimized insurance thanks to health tracking. Uniqueness and security We value the privacy of our customers and understand that wearables often process sensitive data. That’s why our team maintains the highest security standards all the time. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our wearable application development services and solutions There are a few distinct categories and areas in the wearable industry. All gadgets require special applications to tune them, manage, and use properly. Also, to get the most of your wearable solutions, you should think about infrastructure, integrations with other services, and user experience. Our wearable application development offers the focus on the next areas: AR/VR solutions Based on wearable headsets and glass sets, augmented and virtual reality was a hot trend a few years ago. Now, it’s valuable for gamers and professionals like surgeons or architects. Health and fitness trackers Come on, literally, all around are wearing these trackers nowadays! They help people monitor their health and workout activities, while clinics can tailor offerings based on this data. Smart glasses Lightweight versions of large headsets look like traditional glasses but with extra features. They can simulate AR environments, show info on small screens before your eyes, handle calls, etc. Smartwatch Being more powerful alternatives to fitness trackers, smartwatch gadgets not only show time but let you chat with people, record data, work with docs, watch videos, and so on. Wearable computers This category includes the most powerful gadgets that are like smartphones-on-your-hand. Wearable application development for them is similar to Android or iOS custom development. Unique and innovative projects Finally, we’re happy to work with groundbreaking ideas. Smart clothing, smart jewelry, neural sensors! Reach us and express your ideas, so we can offer the best dev approach. What impacts your project duration Several essential factors define the overall duration of any wearable project. They are unique for different solutions and customers, so be sure to study them carefully: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition The chosen technologies and platforms Integration with other IoT systems What affects your project costs Just like duration, costs can’t be estimated before the initial requirements gathering. We should understand your needs to calculate the cost of our services. The factors are as follows: Project scope and complexity The chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team Unique specifications of wearable gadgets What we need from your side If you want to reach great project outcomes that meet your expectations and requirements, we ask you to help us a bit. Any wearable development process is two-side. Hence, here is a list of the things we might need from your side. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, e.g., software architecture and mockups A couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Financial services Software Audit for Wilson & Franco Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Frequently asked questions What is wearable technology? It’s a large area that includes all the hardware gadgets that can be worn plus all the software solutions that power these gadgets. Wearables include many tools, from watch to implantable chips. And wearable app development focuses on software and infrastructure for them. How is wearable technology useful? Wearables can be used in many industries: healthcare, manufacturing, entertainment, professional services, education, etc. The solutions are interconnected, so they facilitate and optimize data gathering, processing, and analysis. What is the cost of developing a wearable app? The final costs depend on several factors, as stated above: general scope, complexity, completion urgency, unique requests related to gadget design or software, etc. Our wearable app development company can estimate the costs after initial consultation and collecting your business needs. Similar expertise IoT Cloud solutions Big data Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman