Pinpoint payment plugin optimization Services provided Software audit Software architecture Custom software development Manual testing Dedicated team DevOps Expertise used Cloud solutions Blockchain Industry Software product Project overview Online payment is a procedure that must be smooth, secure, and error-free. Any company using an underdeveloped or outdated payment module risks losing reputation in the eyes of customers who can easily lose their own hard-earned money due to a single mistake in the software code. That is especially relevant for companies that chose to design custom payment processing plugins, which is common nowadays. Our client, for instance, had a recurring issue with their custom plugin, which we needed to fix. Client Pinpoint Payments Team 3 members Country Israel Duration 6 months Client information Pinpoint Payments is a business-optimizing payment processing solutions provider that focuses on retail and e-commerce opportunities powered by innovative software and processing approaches. The company creates unique credit card processing systems, such as POS systems and payment modules, and helps optimize cash discount programs, chargeback management, and fraud prevention in a broad scope of industries (e-commerce, healthcare, hosting, affiliate marketing, and more). Business challenge The client had an online payment API for processing credit card payments that failed to serve its purpose correctly. That resulted in workflow downtime, which, if not handled timely, could result in serious business-undermining expenses. Moreover, failed transactions put off customers and negatively affected business reputation as a whole. All in all, the situation had to be urgently fixed to avoid grave business consequences, retain customers, and save client’s integrity in their eyes. Technical challenges The existing PinpointCach is a payment processing Magento module that receives transactions from Authorize.net for further business-side processing and works as a part of the custom Pinpoint API. The whole API and the module, in particular, required thorough optimization, improvement of integrations with other services on the surface, and refactoring along with further testing and optimization as a more complex task. The scope of work at hand was pretty extensive, and we had to rework tons of code in the process. Solution delivered The optimized Magento payment module now works the way it should – it grabs transactions from other services and processes them within the internal system. When we started to work on the project, the module was outdated and had a lot of obsolete code. All the code was refactored, and thorough security tests were conducted afterward. We also expanded the number of supported gateways and added compatibility with OnePageCheckout extensions. Currently, everything works error-free, preserving the security of customer data and payments the way it should. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Gateway’s support The API now supports NMI, Stripe, Authorize.net, and a few other payment gateways that are yet to be connected. OnePageCheckout Support of the OnePageCheckout extension is necessary to cover all customers paying through Magento. Improved integrations Namely, improved integration with Konnective provides a great backup plan in case of any possible errors. Admin interface A separate administrator dashboard allows viewing transaction logs and HTTP response records in real time. Value to our client Reinforced security Multiple iterations of thorough testing scenarios allowed us to reinforce the APIs security for reliable transactions. Versatile processing The updated and optimized PinPointCash module can process transactions from many payment gateways. Status monitoring System administrators can now thoroughly monitor the status of transactions and the overall API performance. Our tech stack Magento Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman