Insurance automation software development services Having strong expertise in creating insurtech products, DICEUS considers insurance automation software development one of the IT areas we excel at. Our qualified and certified developers possess a wide array of skills and competence in a broad-ranging technology roster, enabling them to develop a comprehensive insurance automation system for your organization. Get consulted Send requirements Insurance workflow routines are extremely complex processes that involve dealing with tons of data and performing numerous calculations and validations. If carried out manually, these activities will take a lot of time and keep a considerable workforce busy. By leveraging insurance workflow automation software, companies in the domain will revolutionize their shop floor practices, cut down on operational expenditures, improve the productivity of personnel, and augment the level of customer service. What we offer Cloud automation software for insurance To support collaboration anytime and anywhere, we offer cloud software that will allow your teams to access critical data wherever they are. Key advantages of the cloud include the possibility to scale infrastructure, integrate other systems, and ensure disaster recovery. Enterprise workload automation for insurance DICEUS builds custom enterprise workload automation solutions that can simplify and help handle back-office workflows in risk selection, claim processing, billing, and more. These solutions are empowered with intelligent data insights and predictive analytics. Automation software for insurance brokers We provide brokers with smart tools that can automate their daily operations—from customer onboarding to quoting and claim monitoring. Our software for brokers reduces manual work, improves accuracy, and enhances customer trust. It offers user-friendly dashboards, policy administration, self-service customer portals, and digital communication means with real-time notification. Sales automation insurance software Our solutions for sales help automate lead capture, quotation, customer relationship management, and marketing. This streamlines the entire sales process, enabling insurance teams to close deals faster and with greater efficiency. Need to automate insurance operations with technology? Tell us more about your goals Send request Use cases of insurance automation The implementation of robotic process automation (RPA) enhanced by intelligent automation features and tools gives a powerful boost to the efficiency of any element of the business pipeline. Yet, automation software for insurance companies brings maximum value when employed to upgrade the following procedures. Underwriting Here, you can introduce automated processing of applications, segment customers based on their policy type, creditworthiness, claim history, or other factors, conduct risk assessments via analyzing customers’ previous insurance coverage, and more. Claim management Claims processing routine can be greatly advanced and accelerated via AI-powered validation of relevant documents, detection of fraudulent claims, calculation of payment sums and their instant disbursement, application of user-defined rules for claim rejection/approval, assignment of claim management tasks to personnel, etc. Policy management Insurance solutions will create customizable templates for all types of policies, update them if necessary, generate documents, and send them to clients via different channels. Marketing You will be able to hold sequential multi-channel campaigns that you can micro-target and tailor according to each client’s personal preferences and past history. Customer support Top-notch insurance agency automation software will let the clientele do a lot of things themselves, such as self-registering, updating personal information, filing claims, or paying for policies. Besides, they will receive automated notifications and communicate with virtual assistants to solve issues and get answers to standard questions. Billing Insurance software is highly instrumental in creating customer invoice templates in multiple languages and currencies, signing them with e-signature, supporting different payment methods, and real-time invoice status tracking. Our products: Customer-facing web portal developed by DICEUS to automate policy sales and claims for health insurance companies insurance automation software web portal Pinch and spread for zoom Major features of insurance automation software Software for insurance automation offered by DICEUS aims to automatize operations, minimize human intervention, and maximize customer satisfaction. The following are the primary features which allow insurance organizations to attain operational excellence and make their business processes future-proof. Workflow orchestration Automation software facilitates end-to-end orchestration of intricate insurance processes—everything from onboarding and issuance to claims settlement and renewals. Insurers can guarantee consistency, minimize delay, and address challenges throughout the insurance life cycle by automating these inter-related activities. Automated decision-making (Rules-based and AI-powered) Built-in rule sets and AI algorithms enable insurers to automate repetitive decision-making, including policy approvals, premium calculations, fraud identification, and claim triage. This provides quicker response times, better accuracy, and reduced operating expenses. AI further facilitates adaptive decision-making that changes over time based on past facts and forecasting insights. Document creation and management The platform enables automatic generation, customization, and archival of a broad range of forms—applications, policy contracts, claims forms, invoices, and many others. Templates can be automatically filled with customer data and regulatory requirements to save time and avoid mistakes. System integration Your systems will work more effectively once they can communicate with each other. That’s why we integrate insurance automation software with other systems you use, including customer relationship management system, enterprise resource planning solutions, core systems, even if they are legacy and it is difficult to connect those. Such approach allows our customers to reach better collaboration across different departments and branches, without disruptions in their work. Real-time dashboards and reporting Custom dashboards provide an immediate, real-time visualization of key metrics including claims volume, underwriting performance, compliance with SLA, customer satisfaction, and many others. It allows insurers to make decisions through analytics, detect issues promptly, and allocate resources accordingly. Self-service customer portals Empowering clients through self-service capabilities is essential in today’s digital-first world. Automation software offers portals where policyholders can create and manage their accounts, file and monitor claims, update personal information, buy policies and pay premiums, get real-time updates, speak with virtual assistants. Customer-facing portals not only enhance CX but also take the burden off of the support teams. Our customer-facing solutions for insurance businesses Mobile app for health insurance Mobile app for life and unit-linked products Mobile app for car insurance Web portal with self-services features AI-powered chatbot More solutions Want to see how our ready-made software products work? Write which one you’d like to see in action and we’ll contact you soon. Book a demo Benefits of custom insurance automation software When implemented by such a professional insurance automation software development company, solutions in this field usher in numerous benefits. Mitigating the impact of human factors People involved in handling data-rich and multi-step procedures make mistakes, which may cause huge financial losses and reputational damage to insurance organizations. Software products allow them to keep errors and inconsistencies to a minimum, thus enhancing the quality of services and reducing expenditures. Improving an insurance company’s efficiency Machines revolutionize all pipeline activities they are involved in, which results in faster document processing, claim handling, and payment disbursement. It promotes performance and increases the productivity of the organization. Better risk management Advanced data analytics capability provided by automation tools exposes threats insurance organizations face and enables them to predict and prevent them. Monitoring compliance Thanks to automation solutions, insurance companies can keep track of relevant legislative changes and stay perpetually compliant with regulations in the industry, thus avoiding hefty fines and other penalties. Why choose DICEUS for insurance automation? Trusted by leading insurance companies and brokers. Since 2011, we’ve been delivering innovative software solutions for some of the industry’s leading insurers and brokers: Vienna Insurance Group, UNIQA, Fairfax Group, and WTW. This rich experience has improved our understanding of the insurance industry’s specific demands and encouraged us to develop solutions that effectively address its operational and regulatory challenges. Our suite of ready-made software for insurers. We offer both customer-facing and internal ready-made software products for insurance businesses. Our suite includes a SuperApp supporting all essential types of insurance, AI-based Underwriting Workbench, Core Insurance Suite, Group Insurance Platform, Chatbot, Web Portal for customers, and Data Warehouse. Deep understanding of the insurance sector. With decades of experience developing advanced software solutions for the financial services sector, we understand your challenges and know what technology solutions can help you automate business operations. Our experts conduct business analysis to offer you an effective tech stack, optimal team composition, project roadmap, etc. DICEUS insurance automation services Having delivered numerous software automation projects, DICEUS provides custom insurance automation software development services along two lines. Automation consulting We can offer competent recommendations for solving current issues or fixing malfunctions of existing automation solutions and advising insurance companies on embracing new automation systems from scratch. Discovery and implementation We provide an end-to-end development of professional automation tools that begins with an out-and-out audit of the insurance company’s needs and requirements and culminates in delivering a fully functional product ready for usage. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 8 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our partners Want to discuss your project? Send request What affects the success of insurance automation software Our approach to creating best-in-the-class insurance automation solutions includes the following vital aspects. AI-fueled analytics. This module is crucial for processing customer and third-party data, conducting risk assessments, and obtaining actionable insights regarding future campaigns, client segmentation, pricing, and more. Employee training. No matter how weighty the boons of an automation product are, companies won’t unlock its full potential unless their personnel learn to handle software properly. End-to-end automation. Organizations can get the maximum value from automation only if it covers all workflows across the entire insurance lifecycle and eliminates manual processes wherever possible. Focus on CX. The end-users’ satisfaction is the ultimate purpose of building insurance automation solutions. That is why we do our best to create user-friendly interfaces and straightforward customer journeys that will let both clients and insurers make the best of the software they utilize. Factors affecting the cost of insurance automation projects While embarking on software automation initiatives, insurance companies want to understand the sum they will have to allocate for it. We can announce the project cost after we learn the following information. Project complexity and scope The urgency of project completion The tech stack the project requires Engagement model you opt for (Dedicated Team or Time & Material) The cost of the RPA license Integration needs How to understand that you need to consider automation While harnessing automation software is an ultimate efficiency booster for any digitally-fueled organization, automation for insurance companies is mission-critical if they: Start their work and want to make an automation solution the core of their future business ecosystem Have complex insurance operations as a part of their workflow Need seamless integration of novel tools with their legacy ecosystem Aim at enhancing data security Are to comply with numerous industry-specific local regulations Plan to leverage smart contracts in their routine Our achievements Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Our tech stack Similar services Insurance data analytics software development Policy management software development Claims management software development Underwriting software development FAQ What is insurance automation software development? It is a combination of IT services aimed at creating and implementing automation technologies into pipeline insurance activities. Typically, automation tools are utilized to streamline and facilitate claim and policy management, underwriting, billing, customer support, BI analytics, and more. How can automated systems benefit the insurance industry? By embracing automation on a wide scale, insurance companies can reduce the amount of manual labor, minimize human-driven errors, improve risk management, keep abreast of changes in compliance regulations, increase the efficiency of their shop floor activities, and boost the level of customer service. What distinguishes insurtech automation from traditional processes? Automated workflows allow companies to switch to a more effective pipeline routine, where claim handling, policy management, underwriting, billing, and other operations are conducted faster. Besides, the lion’s share of customer-facing activities can be performed by clients themselves through various self-service capabilities. How do efficiency software solutions benefit insurers? Thanks to them, insurers can create customizable templates for various kinds of policies, validate incoming documents, quickly process applications and claims, calculate payments, detect fraud, and more. For managers, the assignment of claim management tasks, depending on the personnel qualification, location, experience, etc., becomes a cakewalk. How can technology improve claims automation in insurance? AI-driven insurance products are highly instrumental across all elements of the claim processing pipeline – from the validation of claim-supporting documents, damage estimation, and claims triage to calculating the due amount to be paid, communicating claim-related decisions to the client via multiple channels, and disbursing of the coverage to the customer. What types of insurance companies benefit most from automation software? Automation benefits all forms of insurance organizations—health, life, property and casualty, and commercial lines. High-volume operations, legacy, and multi-channel interaction organizations profit the most, as automation enables them to grow, save costs, and transform the delivery of services while not having to replace core systems. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman