Ready-made software products for insurance Our suite of ready‑made software solutions is designed to help insurers, brokers, MGAs, TPAs, and other insurance businesses automate operations, improve customer engagement, and increase revenue. Request a demo Underwriting Workbench A digital insurance platform for underwriters enhances decision-making using AI, offers a comprehensive view of accounts, and facilitates effective collaboration with brokers, MGAs, and other partners. Learn more about Underwriting Workbench Account‑centric 360° customer view AI‑powered submission intake Rate, price and quote automation (RPQ) Delegated authority and broker portal Clash check and risk overlap detection AI‑driven intelligent decision support Centralized workflow management Seamless external integrations Individual and Group Insurance Management Platform Comprehensive insurance management platform for businesses and employees to effectively manage health, life, pension, auto, and other insurance plans and benefits. Workflows and business rules Product and policy administration Quote generation, invoicing, and billing Client (Individual/Group) management Claims and reimbursement processing Reporting and dashboards Learn more about Individual and Group Insurance Management Platform Policy Administration System A modular solution that addresses essential back‑office processes like policy administration, claims management, billing, and more. Learn more about Policy Administration System Policy quotation Policy generation Claim management Billing and invoicing Reporting and dashboards Super App for health, life, unit-linked, car, travel, and other types of insurance A multilingual mobile app built to deliver a first‑class customer experience for policyholders and automate key insurance processes, including claims submission, policy purchase, and document processing. Explore Mobile app for health insurance Health claims Self-service symptom checker (Avatar) Scheduling appointments with doctors Scheduling appointments for lab tests Telemedicine Map showing clinic locations Submitting claim reports Submitting claims for reimbursement Remote physical exams with smart clinic solutions Preventive medicine and prophylaxis Medicine delivery Chatbot Learn more about the mobile app for health insurance Mobile app for life and unit-linked products Digital insurance cards Details/plan information Saving products Proposals Funds rebalancing Event-triggered proposals Payment pauses Payment reminders Requests to update policyholder information Policy renewal triggered by ending contract Learn more about the mobile app for life and unit-linked products Mobile app for car insurance Policy purchase Choose your conditions Policy renewal Claim submission Claim details Claim status monitoring Information center Notifications about maintenance and service Monitoring of fines for traffic violations Emergency roadside and accident assistance Gamification Learn more about the mobile app for car insurance Platform for captives and captive managers A modular software platform designed specifically for captive insurance companies and captive managers to effectively manage their workflows. Learn more about the platform for captives and captive managers 01 Policies module 02 Products module 03 Invoicing and billing module 04 Claims module 05 Exposure and bordereaux module 06 Actuarial module 07 Clients module Data Warehouse for Insurance Our DWH solution grows with your business and is built to adapt as your data needs evolve. We offer DWH implementation and maintenance to support the emergence of new data sources. Learn more about Data Warehouse for Insurance Customer Web Portal A self-service customer portal that encourages clients to purchase insurance products and services online. It offers functionalities such as policy comparison, quoting, purchasing, claim reporting, and status tracking. 01 Policy purchase 02 Claims submission 03 Policy information 04 Self-service capabilities (appointment scheduling, telemedicine, damage estimation, etc.) 05 Customer support Learn more about Customer Web Portal Broker Portal A ready‑made digital solution for brokers with pre‑built functionalities to create quotes, prepare policies, register and monitor claims, and communicate with customers in one place. Quoting activities Invoicing and billing Policy management Claim management Customer relationships Reporting and analytics Learn more about Broker Portal AI-Powered Chatbot A conversational solution powered by LLMs that understands context, recognizes both voice and written messages, and ensures a personalized customer experience. Policy purchases and online payments 24/7 customer support Appointment scheduling Claim submission Learn more about the AI-Powered Chatbot Why choose our ready‑made software products? 01 Understanding of the insurance sector Since 2011, we have empowered leading insurers and brokers, including UNIQA, Vienna Insurance Group, Fairfax Group, and WTW, by delivering customized software solutions tailored to their specific needs. Our extensive expertise has equipped us with a profound understanding of the insurance sector and its challenges. This insight drives us to create innovative, ready‑to‑implement solutions that not only meet but exceed industry expectations. 02 Faster time‑to‑market Our pre‑built solutions are implemented much faster than it takes to develop a custom software product. Nevertheless, our ready‑made products can be customized to meet your specific requirements, addressing your challenges and helping you achieve your business goals. Moreover, this approach is cost‑effective as it doesn't require investing in expensive enterprise systems. 03 Seamless system integration All software products we offer can be integrated with the systems your organization uses, including core insurance systems, data warehouses (DWH), electronic health records (EHR)/electronic medical records (EMR), billing systems, customer relationship management (CRM) systems, and payment gateways. We use APIs and middleware to ensure operational continuity and seamless data flow during integration. That means your day‑to‑day operations won't be interrupted, and your organization can continue its work without downtime. Our software products support your business lines Health insurance Life insurance Investment and unit-linked products P&C insurance Car insurance Travel insurance Pet insurance Disability insurance and other lines Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman