Auto insurance software Super App for car insurance companies Super App is a multilingual, customer‑facing car insurance software — a mobile app developed by DICEUS — to automate key operations, including policy purchase, claim submissions, and customer support. It offers a wide variety of self‑services for policyholders, reducing paperwork and manual tasks for insurers. Book a demo Policy purchase Customers of insurance companies can buy car insurance policies directly in the mobile app. If users have ever saved data about their vehicle(s), they can choose it and proceed to purchase or update the policy. It saves time and effort, making the process convenient. If there's no saved vehicle data, users can quickly enter it. Once all set, the system offers multiple car insurance plans with various conditions. After selecting a particular plan, the user is offered to check if all the information is correct, confirm the order, and pay for the insurance directly in the app. Choose your conditions If users would like to select their conditions, they can generate the quote by adding the required parameters (franchise, compensation for damage to property or third parties, compensation for damage to the life of third parties). After checking the data specified and the price offered, users can proceed to purchase the policy. Policy renewal Autorenewal, with push notifications and personalized offers, helps insurers reduce customer churn and enhance retention. Policyholders will get timely reminders to renew their insurance, bypassing the need to contact agents or call center. At the same time, personalized offers will increase the likelihood that policyholders would purchase other insurance products or additional services. Claim submission Our Super App is an auto insurance claims software that allows policyholders to submit a claim once an insured event occurs (accidents, collisions, theft, roadside assistance, etc.) by providing all the required information. The app captures all essential data (insurance program name, policy term, contract number, car data, and more) so that the insurance company can proceed with the claim without delays. Policyholders also choose the location of the accident on the map, which is very convenient, as there's no need to enter it manually. The generated claim report contains the accident date, location, and all vehicle information. Additionally, users can attach accident photos and any supporting documents. Once checked, the claim can be submitted. Claim details Policyholders can view car accident claim details, containing the case number, contact person's name, category of the insured event, accident date, service station address and contacts, accident location, and documents attached to the claim, together with the description. Claim status monitoring Policyholders can easily track the status of the claim request submitted. The statuses show the progress of the claim, for example, "registration not completed," "waiting for documents," "submitted for payment," etc. Each request may require a particular action from the user, for example, to choose a payment direction. Notifications about maintenance and service Policyholders can get reminders for scheduled vehicle maintenance, oil changes, or other mandatory procedures. This feature increases customer engagement, meaning your customers will use a mobile more frequently. Engaging customers to use a mobile app will also increase the likelihood of cross‑selling additional insurance products. Information center Super App can serve as an information center where policyholders can get information about fuel prices, gas stations, and more. It is integrated with the map where the nearest stations and fuel prices are displayed. Insurers can also publish various guidelines on road safety, new laws, recommendations on car care, and other useful information. FAQ and video guidelines can also be added to increase the number of policyholders using the mobile app as a key point of information. Monitoring of fines for traffic violations The app offers easy tracking of fines for traffic violations. Policyholders can check the information about their fines and pay for them directly in the app. This functionality strengthens policyholders' connection with the insurer's brand and encourages users to use the app regularly. Emergency roadside and accident assistance In case of an emergency or accident, the app has a quick call button to request a tow truck, repair, or taxi. It also provides step‑by‑step guidance on what to do, which photos to take, and which documents to fill in case of accidents. Gamification To encourage policyholders to use the app, we offer several options like bonus programs (for example, bonuses for active usage of the app, accident‑free driving, or additional insurance product purchases). Such bonuses can be further used as discounts for policy renewals. Our Super App can be customized according to your needs, requirements, and company’s branding Request a demo Store Super App offers a Store functionality that allows policyholders to buy additional insurance products like health insurance for family members, life insurance, car insurance, home insurance, etc. This feature enhances customer convenience by providing a seamless and user‑friendly experience, enabling policyholders to explore and purchase tailored coverage options directly from their mobile devices, thereby fostering cross‑selling opportunities and boosting customer engagement. Policy details "My policies" is a central hub for users to view, manage, and update their insurance policies. View active policies, coverage details, and renewal dates View inactive policies View policies for relatives (children, spouses) Add policies to a digital card wallet Policy updates (e.g., change of coverage) Download policy documents (e.g., PDF copies) Policy renewal and purchase options Premium due date notifications and reminders Payment plan options (monthly, quarterly, yearly) Notifications Notifications work for any insurance business line and may be set up according to the insurance company's workflows. This feature covers all types of notifications, including status updates, push notifications, alerts, reminders, news, offers, due dates, and more. Authorization The user signs in using a standard password and a one‑time password (OTP). Two-factor authentication is a secure way to log in, protecting accounts from all cyber‑attacks. Biometric login Super App supports code and biometric identification for login, such as Touch/Face ID. User profile Policyholders can view and modify their personal information (name, date of birth, phone number, and email). Integrations Super App can be integrated with any customer's IT system: core insurance systems, payment gateways, open data portals, CRM systems, and others. Also, integration with IoT devices like healthcare wearables is available. NPS, engagement surveys, and loyalty programs Super App allows insurers to collect NPS (Net Promoter Score) metric by periodically sending a standard NPS survey to customers in the app and analyzing customer satisfaction with insurance products and services. Personalized surveys can be created by the insurance company and sent to the customer directly in a mobile app. Policyholders can share their feedback on social media platforms and refer the insurance company to their friends. For that, they get special bonuses — discounts for policy renewals, for example. Payment reminders Payment reminders notify policyholders of upcoming premium due dates. They can be integrated in different ways: push or pop‑up notifications, in‑app reminders, or banner alerts. For example, users may see notifications about due dates while viewing policy details. For insurance companies, this functionality improves operational efficiency associated with policy renewals, timely payments, and customer retention. Event-triggered proposals Event‑triggered proposals are driven by backend logic that captures specific user events (location, app activity, transaction history, etc.). Depending on the event, policyholders get relevant, context‑related proposals in real time. Insurers can create predefined business rules in the backend to effectively process events. Proposals delivered at the right moment increase the likelihood that policyholders will buy additional insurance products. Security The security of our Super App is ensured by authentication and authorization mechanisms like biometrics and two‑factor authentication. Regular vulnerability assessments and penetration testing help identify and address potential threats. Additionally, secure app development frameworks and adherence to platform‑specific guidelines (like Apple's App Store Review Guidelines or Google Play's Developer Policy) further reinforce security, ensuring apps meet industry standards. Multilingual support This feature allows policyholders to interact with the app in their preferred language. Users are able to select their language in settings and the app will adjust the content accordingly. So, insurance companies can cater to the needs of diverse audiences if this is required by the company’s business goals. Find the right solution for your needs Talk to our expert Diana Mircheva Product Owner at DICEUS Benefits of our Super App For insurance companies Reduced costs on customer support Increased customer engagement Increased revenue Improved CX and increased customer satisfaction Reduced paperwork and eliminated manual jobs Automated key processes For customers of insurance companies 24/7 customer support Access to self-service features Online quote generation and policy purchase Online claim submission Personalized offerings and recommendations Pricing model The pricing components include three components: licenses (base fee, module‑specific fee), support, and implementation. A customization option is available and is calculated separately. It consists of a discovery phase and customization itself. Base Fee License paid yearly A fixed fee that covers general access to the platform and all core features that come with all modules Authorization Biometric login User profile Store Notifications Security Policy details Module-specific Fee paid yearly Additional fees for each module that the insurance company activates Health insurance module Investment and life insurance module Car insurance module Travel insurance module Chatbot Support paid yearly Includes fee for technical support and functionality extension CET time zone support hours Response time depends on the incident severity and support package purchased Communication channels: chat, email, remote sessions Consultations on functionality Notifications of new releases and critical security updates Regular updates and bug fixes Infrastructure maintenance Customization Discovery phase: Business and functional requirements Non-functional requirements Integration points and data flows Configuration and customization scope Product customization Mobile app customized according to requirements for two platforms, iOS and Android, tested and published in AppStore and Google Play Market Searching for other auto insurance software? We'd be happy to tell you more about our ready‑made solutions. Request a demo FAQ Can a Super App solution serve as an auto insurance claims management software? Actually, our Super App is a customer‑facing mobile application that allows policyholders to file claims and track their statuses. Thus, when integrated and synchronized with a claim management software you use, it can complement it. Do you have any car insurance broker software? Yes, DICEUS offers a ready‑made Broker Portal solution for all insurance business lines, including auto. Our Broker Portal has all the necessary modules to manage insurance operations effectively: quoting, policy management, invoicing, claims, customer management, reporting, and analytics. To learn more about the portal, feel free to book a demo call with our team. What are the key benefits of a Super App as a car insurance software? Our Super App allows auto insurance companies to reduce costs on customer support and reimbursements, increase revenue, and improve customer loyalty. By offering a wide range of self‑services, policyholders feel more satisfied with the products and services provided by insurers. They can easily buy car insurance in the app, file claims there, and get lots of useful information without contacting call centers. What other solutions for insurance do you have? DICEUS is a product‑led company offering a suite of ready‑made software for insurers, brokers, captives, captive managers, and other insurance businesses. Our solutions include an AI‑Powered Underwriting Workbench, Individual and Group Insurance Management Platform, Policy Administration System, Data Warehouse, Customer Web Portal, Broker Portal, and Chatbot. Our Super App is currently available for health, life, unit‑linked, and car insurance. However, it can be implemented for any other type of insurance if needed. Other ready-made software products Data Warehouse for Insurance Alternative Risk Platform Captive Owner Portal Group Insurance Management Platform Risk Retention Group Management Platform Policy Administration System Platform for captives and captive managers Insurance General Ledger Platform Group Insurance Management Platform for Life & Pensions AI-Powered Chatbot Super App Customer Web Portal AI-Powered Underwriting Platform for Life Insurance Reinsurance Platform​ Broker Portal Underwriting Workbench for Health Insurance AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Group Health Insurance Management Platform Captive Management Platform All solutions Request a demo 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman