Cross platform application development Free consultation What we offer Cross platform mobile development uncovers unique opportunities for businesses small and large, entrepreneurs, and companies looking for utterly cost-efficient and long-term fruitful solutions created in the most flexible way possible up to date. DICEUS is a seasoned provider in this technology niche with in-depth experienced software engineering teams willing and ready to build a truly standing-out cross-platform solution that would top the existing market. Here are the specific services we offer in terms of cross platform development initiatives. Cross platform application development Pinch and spread for zoom Market-fit analysis Are you still not sure what particular approach is better to employ in your particular business case – what type of app to build with which scope of features, etc.? We will help you make the best decision and set off the most individualized cross platform app development project that will help you emphasize and expand your business value by easily covering new vast market horizons. For this, we conduct a market- and business-specific analysis, defining the major decision-making factors, common practices and trends, and other things. UI/UX design The design of user interface and overall user experience structure are fundamental supporting pillars of any application. We provide the professional assistance of designers savvy specifically in the multi platform app development aspects. This means that our specialists encompass UI/UX expertise focused on both essential mobile operating systems of the now (i.e., Android and iOS). And only professionals savvy in the specifics of both “mobile realms” can handle delivering the smoothest running, highest performing application. Custom development We know how important it is to propose a unique, standing-out value point to the ever-shifting market to keep afloat. That’s why we also focus our cross platform mobile app development efforts on the creation of absolutely custom software features and whole pieces (apps and mobile platforms of any scope and complexity). With a custom approach to building a completely new solution with an original design from scratch, you can achieve the most authentic, audience-inviting results and deliver exclusive corporate vibes. Upgrade and maintenance Every created software product requires further post-release support and maintenance right in its field of active operation to work appropriately, downtime-free, and smoothly. We have specialized tech support teams that would handle post-release updates and upgrades of a cross platform mobile app, conduct technical and business audits to mend flaws and patch up error-prone software areas, and maintain stress-load specifics in the app. Even an initially successful, impactful product needs to stay consistently efficient to retain users. Turning to DICEUS professionals, you ultimately get an opportunity to create an absolutely authentic cross platform application start-to-finish and firmly maintain it in the market in order to reap the maximum profits out of your creation. Full-cycle project creation is truly convenient. It is also convenient to create and maintain a business-important application in collaboration with one and the same team of experts. They will know all the ins and outs of your finished app so that you will be able to simply avoid any unexpected errors and occurrences. Free consultation Cross platform application development Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of our cross platform mobile development services DICEUS is an established provider of a range of cross platform mobile application development services that puts best practices, firsthand field experience, and focus on personal business needs and goals as the main priorities of doing business. Due to our time in the market and extensive specialization, we can offer many ultimate benefits you get from collaborating with our specialists, like the following. Initial consulting and strategy The ultimate success of any software-related project is thorough preparation of all workflow processes and planning of the defining aspects (i.e., milestones, minor and major objectives, work tactics, workflow directions, timelines, labor intensity scopes, etc.). This is exactly why we put timely, thorough consulting and strategizing in the head of every other project (providing it as separate services as well). We have just the expertise to consult you on all the major aspects of multi platform mobile development and tailor your perfect strategy. Cross-platform development expertise In our line of work, we believe that it is fundamentally important to possess exactly the narrow, focused expertise in a particular field of software development. That’s why we have gathered a profiled staff of cross platform software engineers, designers, maintenance specialists, and others. Everybody you need for a high-quality full-cycle project under one roof, at some of the highest levels of qualification. We have experience and firsthand expertise to back this up in practice working on your market-defining cross platform app. Change request management As much as you should thoroughly plan out every workflow aspect, projects may still require unexpected changes and overhauls in the process because who knows how exactly the whole process of assembling a high-performance multi platform application goes. Especially for this, we formed a separate department of management specialists that help keep all project workflows in tune and promptly implement changes requests by the client. We help you keep everything in a firm professional grasp in a full-cycle format. On-time product delivery Having been performing in the industry for more than ten years, we have well-adjusted project performance mechanisms that are constantly aligned with the dynamically changing market realities. With all the expertise and tools, we require for thorough project preparation, management, and completion, we can help you achieve a rapid time-to-market no matter your product’s complexity and scope of purposes. On-time product delivery is also crucial for making a first impression impact in the market that should timely grab users’ attention. Our cloud computing consulting services We offer separate cloud computing consulting for companies and entrepreneurs looking to set the most individually efficient milestones and priorities through in-depth analysis and knowledge of the specifics concerning their cloud project. Again, we have profiled consulting specialists focused on clarifying the specifics of this or that project structure to clients, stakeholders, other specialists, etc. In practice, we can consult you on a range of cloud and multiplatform mobile app development efforts, including the following. Analysis and planning We have specialists who can tell you which major aspects to analyze more in-depth in your particular niche, project specifics, and market trends. They will also help you set the most proper and the optimal workflow route for reaching your goals and business purposes. With this knowledge in hand, you can see truly sturdy project planning foundations. Design and development There are so many layers and underlying details to designing and developing a cloud or multi platform application project that it all becomes easily confusing. Especially considering the fast flow of competition in the modern market, that is generated by regularly spawning new solutions, approaches, and practices. But we can help you gather the most relevant practices in your niche and implement them in the most time- and cost-efficient manner. Testing and deployment The specifics of testing a final product go far beyond the employment of major testing approaches (manual and automated, for instance). The expertise of a seasoned cross platform mobile app development company allows you to acquire some hugely valuable pro tips on combining approaches and going more in-depth with processes of deploying software in fitting operating environments. Support and upgrade Post-release stages are simply paramount to the long-running success of any software solution across the user segments. That’s why you certainly should know a proper way around supporting, maintaining, updating, and maintaining your finished product. We are willing and ready to share constant support techniques and recommend proper technologies, as well as walk you through specifics of expanding your product in the field. Free consultation What impacts your project duration We settle all the deadlines beforehand and focus heavily on delivering the project outcomes on time. The knowledge of the following aspects should help us outline the approximate duration. Project scope and requirements Team composition Expected deadlines Chosen technology and platforms Number of possible change requests What affects your project costs Total final project costs are always very individual and can go beyond or under the initial budget calculations. We do our best to give you the most likely number, though, and having the following information is very important to our budgeting efforts. Project scope and complexity Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Fixed Price, Dedicated Team Chosen technology Other aspects What we need from your side We kick off your project as soon as possible, but we do need to gather and settle a certain amount of info before setting things off. These preliminary preparation aspects include: Project goals and roadmap if you have any High-level requirements Project documentation if any Your availability for requirements gathering Other documentation Our achievements Our tech stack Free consultation Explore our case studies Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Frequently asked questions What technology is better for cross-platform mobile development? There are plenty of cross platform development frameworks and tools out there since this tech concept has had some time to exist and mature in the market now. But one solution that definitely stands out is the renowned React Native platform. It opens some unprecedented, flexible opportunities for a cross platform app development company focused on high-end client-oriented production results. What is market-fit analysis in terms of mobile app development? An in-depth market-fit analysis in terms of a mobile app development project involves creating a portrait of your target audience user segments, pointing market-specific trends and other information, and based on that, forming further workflow milestones and objectives. How much will it cost to develop a cross-platform mobile app? Budgets vary a lot from project to project and must be calculated individually even for approximate figures. DICEUS is a cross platform mobile development company focused on the ultimate convenience of clients, so we offer you the most reasonable rates and most thorough planning and calculation of the project lifecycle budget, pointing out the most efficient way to cut total expenses where it can be done. Similar services Custom software development services UI/UX design Software architecture Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman