On demand app development Request app development What we offer Modern services accessible with one click keep growing their popularity due to lots of people staying at home during lockdowns caused by covid. It’s quite simple to book a ride via Uber or order a pizza to your place via a convenient on-demand service. As these services grow, on demand app development services become also popular. Here’s what we can offer in terms of these services. On demand app development Pinch and spread for zoom On demand app developers We offer on demand mobile app development according to two models: staff augmentation and turnkey software development. The first cooperation model means we will find additional resources, skills, expertise according to your requirements to extend your in-house or distributed team. The second one means that our development team will develop the product following all SDLC stages and QA standards. Apps for healthcare With extensive experience in custom software development for the healthcare industry, we will be happy to help you build an app for your healthcare business. Today, appointment booking, telemedicine, electronic health records and other features are must-haves. By analyzing your type of healthcare services, we will come up with a detailed technical proposal to make your company stand out from the crowd. Apps for delivery and logistics Our team builds custom iOS and Android apps for delivery and logistics service businesses to help them open new opportunities and increase customers. Onboard, we have mobile app developers and business analysts that can explore what features you need to provide to your customers so that your services become more attractive for them. Apps for transport services If you want to differentiate in the market, offer something special for your customers. A set of unique features for transport services businesses is a good way to impress consumers and provide them with a better and more convenient service than your competitors. Let’s create apps with killer features together! Apps for real estate services Our on demand app builder team is ready to deliver next-gen apps for brokers and buyers. Your real-estate business will benefit from online presence and advanced features your competitors don’t even know about. In addition to standard features for admins and customers, our analysts are able to offer you a punch line. Understanding the toughest challenges of on-demand service companies, we help them find the best technology solutions. In addition to mobile development, we also offer software and web app development to meet all your needs in one place. We are an on demand mobile app development company that can become your trusted strategic partner for digital transformation and technology innovation. Our SDLC is built so that it ensures agile development and on-time project delivery, within your budget. Feel free to book our free 30-minute strategy sessions to discuss your requirements. Request app development On demand app development Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of on demand service app development With a growing number of consumers requiring better, faster, and more convenient services, on demand apps built with a user in mind should become a top priority for service businesses. We will help you find a new path to your customers’ hearts. Quick start For both types of cooperation, either staff augmentation or project development outsourcing, we are ready to start as quickly as possible. We find the right developers during 2-4 weeks on average. If you want us to take on the development from scratch, it will also take up a couple of weeks. Industry experience We have developers that built apps for real estate, healthcare, delivery services, and many more. They all are familiar with the specifics of creating apps for these industries. Our analysts will discover your business and offer a couple of variants to enrich your app to become one of your kind in the market. Cost efficiency Our talent pool is large, and we are ready to supply you with as many developers as you need. Rates vary and depend on the developer’s seniority level so you can choose what fits you best. When speaking about a dedicated team, we are able to offer the most cost-effective solution thanks to our deep knowledge of the latest frameworks. High quality Our company has set a high level of QA standards and follows them throughout the entire development life cycle. Our test engineers do all types of mobile app testing to ensure that your app functions as expected. Besides, we provide support and maintenance services to ensure that your app has continuous updates and complies with today’s user demands. Our on demand app development process If you choose end-to-end development, we put a team for you. It usually consists of a project manager, UI/UX designer, iOS/Android developers, backend developers, and QA engineers. The number of developers depends on the project scope and complexity, timeline, and your requirements. Business analysis The BA stage is one of the most important stages in any software development project. For on-demand apps, it’s critical to test your idea and do a market-fit analysis. Our analysts can help you do that to identify your competitors, potential market growth, customers, and so on. Afterward, you will receive a detailed technical proposal with specifications. Project execution When you agree on requirements, the team will proceed to execution. The project is managed by a PM that regularly reports on the project status, team’s velocity, product quality, traceability matrix, and other pre-defined matrices. Deployment Instead of deploying your app to a public app store, you might try deploying personally to early adopters. That is a good way to test your idea one more time and use feedback to improve it. We help our customers organize hassle-free deployments and measure success. Support and maintenance We are also at your disposal for any type of technical support services, such as further maintenance, bug-fixing, troubleshooting, etc. Our technicians will be available for tech advisory and assistance according to several schedule options like on-demand calls, support during business hours, or 24×7 support. Request app development What impacts your project duration The time to develop an on-demand application usually depends on the following. Project requirements Expected time-to-market Team composition Chosen technology Number of improvements What affects your project costs On demand app development cost varies depending on the complexity of your business logic as well as on the following factors. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team Number of additional features What we need from your side To start the development as soon as possible and create a detailed proposal, we kindly ask you provide the following information. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, a test strategy or test cases Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Request app development Explore our case studies Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Project management Cloud-based project management solution Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Frequently asked questions What are on demand app development services? On-demand app development services may be either outstaffing services or end-to-end development for on-demand service businesses like food delivery, taxi, healthcare, and many more. In the first case, you hire additional IT staff, in the second one – you get a dedicated team with a project manager that takes care of all development stages. What is the process of developing on-demand apps? Typically, on-demand app development is not just a build-and-launch process. It starts with an idea and its testing, analyzing your competitors, choosing the right platform and technology for development, creating design and architecture, testing, launching, and updating. What is the cost of on demand app development? The cost of on-demand apps can vary from $10,000 to $100,000 and higher. It depends on the scope and complexity of your app and business. The more functionalities and features your app has, the higher the cost will be. Our experts will be happy to help you estimate the cost of development, so feel free to send your requests. Similar services IT staff augmentation Mobile app development Custom software development services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman