Transforming industries through effective IT solutions Book a call Write to us Find specific expertise your need for your project DICEUS has expertise in various industry sectors and business lines. Our focus industries include banking, financial services, healthcare, logistics, retail, and construction. Browse for a particular service below. However, don't hesitate to contact us if you don't find what you need. Banking In a digital age, banks are poised for the transformation of their processes as never before. Technology is the power that is responsible for your rise and growth. With the right software solutions and approach to development, we can make your operations more efficient, your customers more satisfied and happier, and your compliance with regulations better. Our experts plan, analyze, and execute IT projects for banks with a deep understanding of your domain. Learn more Mobile banking Core banking software development services DWH for banking Robotic process automation in banking Artificial Intelligence development for banking Digital transformation in banking Business intelligence software development services for banking Finance data warehouse development Fintech Accelerate your development by getting industry-specific expertise and high technology skills for fintech. Our expertise includes blockchain, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and intelligent process automation, to name a few. For your quick time-to-market, we offer dedicated team engagement, instant scale-up or scale-down, flexible terms and conditions of cooperation and collaboration, high availability of resources, and required competencies. Learn more Fintech apps Lending Money transfers Blockchain Regulatory compliance Lending software development Payment software development services Investment and wealth management software development services IT solutions for insurance We have rich experience developing custom software products for the insurance industry. Our solutions provide all the core functionalities and modules along with advanced capabilities like omnichannel CX solutions, digital channels, predictive analytics, the Internet of Things, and others. We develop multi-modular systems that combine claims management, underwriting, risk assessment, self-services for customers, ERP systems, and data warehouses for insurance. Learn more Insurance digital channels Insurance software testing and QA services Insurance apps Risk management Claims management Customer experience Agency management Policy management Insurance underwriting software development Insurance portal software development P&C insurance software development Insurance policy administration software development Insurance data analytics software development Insurance claims analytics software development Insurance automation software development Health insurance claims management software development Insurance contact management software development Insurance fraud detection software development Healthcare We help our customers from the healthcare industry provide better services and treatment to patients. Our expertise is custom software development and modernization of front-desk management systems, health applications, patient data systems, and patient data security. Our recent projects enriched our experience in building IoT-enabled clinical trial platforms and national-level systems for medical error reporting and research funding. Learn more Telemedicine apps Telemedicine software Medical device software EHR and EMR software EHR/EMR integration Hospital management system Data warehouse development for the healthcare industry Healthcare mobile app development services Healthcare IT consulting Healthcare digital transformation consulting Healthcare IT outsourcing Healthcare managed IT services Healthcare help desk services Healthcare data analytics services HIPAA compliance consulting services HIPAA compliance services HIPAA compliance pre-audit Wellness and fitness app development services mHealth app development services Retail Our customers from retail leverage our technology skills to digitalize their processes and improve buyers' journeys. For retail, we offer the following expertise: e-commerce, ERP and CRM systems, predictive analytics, and point of sale (POS). While developing IT projects for your industry, we consider the challenges you address: the need for better customer experience, improved supply chain and inventory, higher brand loyalty, and increased revenue. Learn more Retail apps Ecommerce apps IT solutions for retail AI solutions for retail POS software CRM systems Payment gateway integration ERP software development services Logistics Rationalize your logistics processes using our industry and technology expertise in procurement, supply chain, fleet management, customer relationship management, document flow, and accounting. We create new software and modernize legacy systems with advanced technologies for logistics: IoT for real-time monitoring, Big Data, artificial intelligence, robotics, blockchain, and cloud computing. Learn more Supply chain management Fleet management Warehouse management Transportation management Last-mile delivery Construction Improve your construction management and workflows with custom-built software solutions. We help construction businesses overcome the challenges associated with manual and routine work, inefficient project management, high operational costs, and many more. With in-depth business analysis, we'll define all the gaps you have and come up with the best solution to bridge those gaps with the help of technology. Learn more Want your project to be a success? Start it with a discovery phase! Learn more Explore our case studies Browse through 150 case studies in our portfolio. You will definitely find something similar to your project. E-commerce migration from Hybris to Magento 2 for Palmers Textil Austria Retail Applications for BriteCore's P&C insurance core platform USA Insurance Wearable healthcheck tracker Ireland Healthcare INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Germany Computer Software POC for Raiffeisen Bank’s self-service terminals development Ukraine Banking BenefitNet insurance solution UAE Insurance All case studies What our customers are saying about DICEUS Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer's research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS' software implementation services. The team's workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we'd like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman