Embedded software development services and solutions Get consulting on your project What we offer Our embedded software engineering services focus on all key stages, from planning and requirements analysis to development to maintenance. With us, you get tailored software for microcontrollers and processors, embedded applications that make your software running and let you program it, custom embedded operating systems and upgrades of existing ones, fully tested and operational boards, etc. Embedded systems are slowly integrating into our life and work. We see more and more embedded software solutions for smart homes that you can control from your smartphone, turning lights and opening doors. These systems also help in enterprise operations, empowering manufacturing processes, controlling robots, and ensuring smooth communication between machines. Regardless of the focus of your embedded software solution, you’ll get top quality and readiness. Look at a few examples of where our embedded tools can be used: boards, consumer solutions, medical software, network tools, onboard solution, PoS and warehouse, and many more. Embedded software development services and solutions Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits from embedded software engineering services The products and services we’re providing can help you in many cases. The thing is that any embedded software development company has to combine strong knowledge in both hardware and software solutions, understand how to design, develop, customize, and deploy them to ensure the highest efficiency. With us, you can be sure that your project will be completed on time, on scope, and on budget. Here are a few advantages of our embedded software development services: 100% transparent project management Thanks to our Customer Portal, our embedded software development company ensures transparent and smooth monitoring. You can control deadlines, change requests, metrics, and other aspects. Flexible approaches to cooperation Depending on your wishes and requirements, we offer the best solutions. Feel free to choose the most appropriate engagement model, support options, and communication approaches. New and customizable embedded tools Focusing more on a personalized approach, we provide exactly what you need. You can get a completely unique embedded tool or implement a ready solution with the needed changes. Various industries and technologies You can get relevant embedded software development services for banking, insurance, automotive, telecom, healthcare, education, and manufacturing. Just to name a few. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our embedded software development services and solutions Are you ready to dive into the world of boards, kernels, human-machine interfaces, and other amazing things? If yes, read on. Our embedded software company handles all these processes to guarantee that your embedded-related solutions work properly and deliver the best results. BSP and SBC development We provide our expertise in writing software for various devices. The services include traditional firmware development, custom or packaged BSPs with drivers, and single-board computers based on Arduino, Raspberry Pi, and other platforms. Embedded security Installable devices can help a lot with security. We handle device storage features, hardware-software interaction, cloud solutions, security tokens, verified boots, and so on. These security solutions can be implemented in enterprises, smart homes, smart cars, etc. H2M and M2M interfaces Human-machine and machine-machine communication are two core concepts of embedded systems. You can get all the main services, from basic design to visualization and creation of web and mobile interfaces through which operators and machines can interact. Migration of various solutions If you need something more than development, feel free to ask us about kernel and BSP migration options, integration of solutions with different architecture basics, mobile porting to other platforms, as well as compatibility checks. What impacts your project duration Working as an embedded software company for almost 10 years, we know that projects can be really different. Some like knowledge workshops or initial audits for small teams take a few days, others can last for many years. The exact duration depends on the next factors: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition The chosen technologies and platforms The industry for your embedded solutions What affects your project costs The embedded universe is vast. There are super simple projects like the integration of a single controller or the development of a basic MVP. And there are giant tasks that require the hard work of hundreds of people. Thus, we can estimate the cost, but we need to know the next things at first: Project scope and complexity The chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team The target platform and/or integrations What we need from your side Any embedded software company requires close cooperation with clients to complete projects. The thing is only you as a business or a product owner know what do you need and what are your goals. So, we’d appreciate if you can work with us on the following points: Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, e.g., software architecture and mockups A couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Frequently asked questions What platforms do you write embedded software for? We create embedded software solutions for various platforms, including but not limited to ARM, AVR, CISC, CPLD, DSP, FPGA, MIRS, MSP430, PIC, PowerPC, RISC, SHARC, x86, and others. If you have a custom request, feel free to reach us directly. What are the programming languages that you use? The main languages in our embedded software development company include C and C++, Python, ASM, Java and JavaScript. We also support Ruby, Groovy, and other related tools. Depending on your needs, we can involve extra expertise to use the most relevant languages. What methodologies are used in the development process? The golden standard for our work is Agile. We also often utilize Scrum and Kanban approaches if they’re more appropriate for a specific project. Waterfall methods are acceptable, too, so you can get your embedded software solutions delivered in the most optimal way. Similar expertise Blockchain Cloud solutions Big data Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman