Hybrid mobile app development Talk to our expert What we offer Today, dedicated mobile applications are an absolute must for any business focused on achieving a sharp competitive edge and keeping up with the times and trends in the market. The mobile commerce sector makes up a huge chunk of global eCommerce traffic, which means lots of customers you may be missing out on, which means profits that you may not be getting simply due to a lack of a proper app. Hybrid Pinch and spread for zoom Hybrid app development consulting Hybrid mobile software development is a different breed that needs specific methods and approaches. You may already have savvy, experienced mobile software developers in your team, but they still can lack the required “hybrid expertise”. DICEUS has specialized consulting professionals that will point you in the proper direction, highlighting all the major and minor specifics of hybrid mobile app development and clarifying any questions you may have related to the whole process. Hybrid mobile app development We provide top-of-the-line hybrid app development services based on years of practical experience in the field and expertise gained through the successful completion of dozens of hybrid app projects. For this, we have a pool of seasoned specialists in all aspects of hybrid app development workflow ready and willing to take on a new project of any complexity, purpose, and scope. We have software engineers to lay a sturdy foundation for your future app, polish out its backend, and implement all the necessary features. UI/UX design for hybrid apps The design of the user interface and the overall level of user experience are the defining aspects of any application, coming right after backend development. We offer savvy software designers for hire who will structure the interface of your future app and take care of all the relevant UX elements according to the best practices and latest trends in the industry, as well as to your particular requirements and wishes. We can create you a completely custom design that will scream your brand attributes. QA and testing We complete every hybrid mobile development project with thorough quality assurance and testing initiatives. In particular, we combine automated and manual testing approaches and implement multiple testing cycles in order to utterly polish out the final product. Somewhere at the same stage, we conduct QA with profiled specialists and real users to point out things about the user interface and experience that can be ultimately improved and smoothed out. These finalizing stages are fundamental to achieving the highest end quality. Support and maintenance We don’t drop optimizing and improving your completed solution at the QA and testing stage, though. At the post-launch stage, we can provide real-time support and regularly maintain the hybrid application in its field of operation. There are issues and errors that may only appear only under some user traffic pressure when the software is working publicly. We will make sure to patch up any potential flaws and deal with the appearing issues in real time. The great thing is that your solution will be handled exactly by its creators. Team extension On top of our own hybrid app development company in-house powers, we can also assemble an individually picked outsourced or dedicated team for you, according to your specific needs. We can help you extend your existing team of specialists, adding the required expertise and boosting the performance potential for your particular project tasks. The pool of specialists we provide consists of highly qualified veterans in their line of work, most of whom have proper certificates and further extend their expertise. In terms of app development, we believe that one of the most business-efficient approaches is to take the best of both worlds by turning to hybrid app development. The resulting app will be compatible with, e.g., Android and iOS at the same time, saving you time and money that you would spend on creating two separate solutions. Here’s what our hybrid application development company offers in particular. Talk to our expert Hybrid mobile app development Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of hybrid mobile app development Hybrid application development is the ultimate way to approach the creation of a dedicated mobile app in a more progressive way and cut lots of unnecessary costs and efforts without sacrificing any quality or market potential. The main benefit here is that instead of two separate apps for Android and iOS, you get to create one universal solution that fits both “mobile realms” and helps you introduce your brand to the mobile consumer market much faster and in a simpler manner. More particularly, here are the major advantages of this development format. Multiple platforms support The simultaneous support of Android and iOS is only a surface of the whole hybrid potential. We can create a custom mobile application that will be compatible with any other platform you need, even if we are talking about supporting more than two operational environments. Whatever field you need to tackle, we have the well-tried-and-tested expertise to help you achieve your goals at the highest quality level. Online and offline functioning At DICEUS, we put our expertise into the ultimate improvement of your business. Thus, we can help you achieve the highest level of user satisfaction and cover even more user segments by implementing a mobile solution that can function both online and offline. This enables access to the segment of users that, for one or another reason, frequently go offline yet still need certain functionality to, e.g., work, make notes, edit projects – you name it. Faster time-to-market The hybrid mobile application development approach is the ultimate time-saver that allows you to cut the usual time of full-on mobile app creation by two. We cannot stress enough that a single universal solution is much faster and simpler to implement than bothering with two or three separate native solutions that may as well have the same level of functionality and user experience. Hybrid means the fastest time-to-market possible. Easy launch and updates A hybrid mobile app is as fast to introduce to the market as it is easy to launch as a whole and to update in the future. This is because our developers create a single solution tailored to the specific operational environments at the very basic level so that it could be immediately fit into the required working field. The same goes for updates – it will be much simpler to handle updating a universal flexible hybrid application. Our hybrid app development services DICEUS is a hybrid mobile app development company of choice when it comes to implementing high-performance, high-quality, versatile mobile solutions with a sturdy backend and inviting UI/UX design. We have years of experience in the field and dozens of finished projects under our belt to back up our statements. We are ready to discuss your project and provide the following services in terms of its implementation. Project roadmap First things first, once we kick off your project, we thoroughly discuss and outline the detailed roadmap of the project. This concerns structuring the future workflow, gathering and approving all requirements and specifications, conducting necessary business and technical analyses, specifying the portrait of the end product’s target audience of users, and more. Prototyping At this stage, we compose the basic structure of the whole project, building a comprehensive prototype of the full-blown solution. This includes the outline and creation of the UI/UX design and handling of other essential project aspects that don’t require coding. This is, basically, a pre-development stage that lays the groundwork for further functional work. Engineering This is the essential backend and functionality implementation stage where we put the functional “meat” onto the “design bones” of your project’s prototype. This involves hardcoding the required custom features and capabilities, integrating and connecting readymade tools and services, enabling most computing capacities, and setting things in motion. Testing Testing is the product finalization stage where we focus on polishing up the product in terms of all fundamental aspects (UI/UX design, backend, features, performance rates, etc.). For this, we employ a combination of automation and manual testing approaches that help us tweak the end product where necessary and mend all the holes just in line with the launch. Deployment A fully polished and finalized working product must be properly deployed in its operational environment as well. For this, we handle the smooth deployment of your hybrid application in the required markets and make sure that it works perfectly on the target compatible platforms. Lots of optimization work can be handled at this stage. Maintenance Once your application is up and running in the proper environment, even if there are no clear issues for the longest time, sooner or later they may appear under unique traffic load and software functionality circumstances. If that occurs, we are always here to maintain the running application, tackling all the unexpected error occurrences and fixing the rest. Talk to our expert What impacts your project duration Every other project requires different timeframes for full completion and finalization. Here are the ultimate aspects that directly affect the duration of your project. Project requirements Team composition Expected deadlines Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs The budget of your particular project must be calculated individually based on all the underlying requirements and specifics of your future project. We always try to achieve the most convenient price ratio, but here are the particular factors affecting the final price. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Engagement model: Time and Material, Fixed Price, Dedicated Team Project completion urgency What we need from your side DICEUS is a seasoned specialized hybrid mobile application development company that takes full responsibility for all project aspects and helps figure out every step of the way. However, you can provide some invaluable input to help us do the best job. Here’s what we need from you. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our achievements Our tech stack Talk to our expert Explore our case studies Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Frequently asked questions What is the difference between hybrid and native app development? Native applications are solutions compatible with one particular target platform (or OS). And native development approach is, accordingly, focused on creating software tweaked for a certain operational environment. Alternatively, a hybrid approach is focused on creating a universal solution compatible with multiple platforms. Hybrid apps are versatile solutions that help you cover multiple markets while cutting costs and efforts required for native development under the same circumstances. What mobile apps are better and why — native or hybrid ones? There is no perfect approach or golden standard – both types of applications may fit certain purposes and needs. Thus, for instance, you may be targeting one particular exclusive market, for which a native solution may be a more fitting solution. Alternatively, you may want to accelerate the mobile market introduction and kill two birds with one stone by turning to the hybrid approach. The final decision should be made based on specific project conditions. What are cons and pros of hybrid app development? Timely employed hybrid mobile app development services can help you save tons of expenses, project time, and professional efforts. They boost your app’s time-to-market and allow you to tackle multiple profitable user segments at once. Drawbacks may include somewhat limited platform-specific capacities and a lack of certain features that work only on particular compatible devices. Similar services Cross platform application development Mobile app development Web app development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman