Health insurance claims management software development Insurance claims management software development services are provided by DICEUS with relevant tech stack and deep understanding of insurance business challenges and needs. By partnering with us, you will obtain a comprehensive health insurance claims management system satisfying your expectations with its smooth operability. Let's talk Explore solutions Insurance claims management software is required for smooth claim processing, which is a mission-critical part of any insurance handling routine, and health policies are no exception. Health insurance claims management solutions are highly instrumental at all stages of this procedure—from submitting a claim through its processing to a compensation payment. Benefits of custom health insurance claims management software Leveraging a first-rate claims management product ushers in some weighty boons for insurance organizations and their customers. Workflow-tailored solution Custom solutions are built for all business flows. It means that all workflows, customer journeys, and automation needs will be considered before the development phase. So, the solution will fully align with the goals an insurance company wants to achieve. Functionalities you need A significant advantage of custom software is the possibility of creating only those features you really require. No need to buy expensive enterprise solutions, especially if your company isn’t that big. Mobile-friendly solution Custom claim processing tools are usually developed with a user in mind. Unlike many legacy enterprise software products, modern tools serve as digital channels to engage customers to make claim submissions online, through mobile apps, or chatbots. Automated processes As mentioned, automation needs are taken into consideration before the development. This approach helps create a solution that will support efficient and seamless operations, minimizing manual and redundant activities. Streamlined claim submission Users can fill out the respective form on any device (mobile gadgets included). If it is done by the company’s current client, the solution will automatically draw information about them (the claimant’s name, address, policy number, etc.) from its database. Claim progress tracking Customers can not only monitor the claim routing and handling progress in real-time and receive an instant notification as soon as it is approved/rejected, but also get a consultation regarding their case. Easy access to documents People can upload their e-documents (driver’s license, ID, policy, EHR, and more), which insurers can retrieve whenever they need to process the claim. Fast compensation payment Since the claims management software accelerates all pipeline operations, customers can get disbursement much sooner. Explore our IT services for insurance Get started Want to discuss your project? Contact us Features of custom health claims management software development The best-in-class custom solution should perform all claims management functions in health insurance. We distinguish customer-facing features from those used by insurance company employees. So, here is a breakdown of useful functionalities. Customer-facing functionalities Online claim filing In a modern world, it is critical to have the possibility to submit an insurance claim whenever and wherever you are. So, we offer web and mobile solutions for health claim submissions. Making appointments with doctors Our solutions will allow your customers to schedule appointments with doctors on their own. It helps insurers decrease workload on call centers and reduce operational costs. Claim status monitoring As soon as a claim is accepted, adjudicated, validated, satisfied, or disbursed, the claimant obtains a notification about the change in claim status. Auto-filling of customer data To save a claimant’s time and effort, software should automatically insert previously entered or saved information about the customer (such as their name, birth date, policy number, etc.) when they start to type it on the keyboard. Online payments If the insured event has been validated, customers should obtain disbursement via a secure payment capability. Online access to the FAQ By visiting this section, customers can get answers to standard questions regarding the claims processing routine and solve a fair share of issues they may face while filing a claim. Insurer-facing functionalities Claim intake Insurers automatically receive claims and are assigned specific tasks according to the pre-defined rules and workflows. Document management Insurers should have 24/7 access to all claim-related documents (claim application, policy, medical evidence, bank account number, etc.) to make data-driven decisions and accelerate claim processing workflows. Data analytics Our solutions provide solid analytics and BI capabilities to analyze claim data and generate respective reports according to your needs and strategies. Bulk processing We also develop health insurance management platforms for group insurance purposes, where bulk processing is of vital importance. Moreover, our ready-made software product for corporate insurance can be easily implemented if you have such needs. Integrations with other solutions Modern insurance companies rely on a ramified digital environment to provide their services. Health insurance claims management software should dovetail into this multifunctional system and allow its users to move around it smoothly. Integration possibilities Obviously, a health claim management software doesn’t work on its own. It can’t work separately from other systems that usually provide data and support important processes like invoicing, billing, payments, etc. So, it is critical to integrate health claim processing with other systems like Electronic Health/Medical Records, billing systems, payment gateways, and CRM systems. Our team is experienced in system integration, considering best practices and insurance company needs. Below is a list of systems we can ensure effective integration with: Core insurance Data warehouse EMRs/EHRs Billing systems CRM tools Payment gateways Why choose DICEUS for health insurance claims management software development? Proven track record Since 2011, we have created unique software solutions for leading insurers and brokers such as Vienna Insurance Group, UNIQA, Fairfax Group, WTW, etc. This experience helped us understand the insurance sector better and consider its challenges when developing software. Ready-made software products for insurance With deep knowledge of the insurance industry’s needs in digital transformation, we created our own software products and introduced them for insurers, MGAs, and brokers. These products include a SuperApp that supports health, unit-linked, life, travel, auto, and other insurance types, a chatbot, an underwriting workbench with AI capabilities, a customer web portal, a data warehouse, and core insurance modules. Tech stack aligned with insurance business needs With many years of experience, our team has gathered a wide range of technologies that go hand in hand with insurance business goals and challenges. It includes various classic frameworks, tools, and languages, together with state-of-the-art technologies. Therefore, it is easy for our experts to propose an effective stack that fully complies with your project goals. Agile development Our company follows Agile development with defined iterations, which allows our customers to assess the results of each demo session and share their feedback. This approach facilitates the effective development of features that correspond to the customer’s vision. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 8 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our services The vetted experts of DICEUS provide the entire range of custom health insurance claims management software development services that cover all IT needs of an insurance company in this domain. Discovery phase To build a health claim management solution that will fully meet your expectations, we offer to start with the discovery phase, which is also often called business analysis. Yes, it does take time, but it minimizes unexpected situations with requirements, features, and outcomes. After this phase is over, you get documented recommendations on team composition, tech stack, project roadmap, and timeline, and other valuable pieces of advice, as well as a clearer understanding of how your solution will be developed and what it will look like once it goes live. Custom software development We can create comprehensive insurance claims management software from scratch. Our SDLC covers all necessary stages, starting with the discovery phase and project planning, and ending up with the deployment of insurance solutions with subsequent support and maintenance services. Legacy system modernization If you rely on an out-of-date ecosystem whose inadequate functioning hampers your efficiency and fails to satisfy its users’ expectations, we will conduct an out-and-out audit, pinpoint areas that underperform, and upgrade or replace them with cutting-edge features and tools. Mobile app development Modern insurance organizations can’t ignore the mobile experience of their clientele. DICEUS will create a robust app that will let people file a claim from wherever they are and receive the complete roster of other health insurance services via their smartphone. Besides, we offer a ready-made mobile app with a claim processing functionality for health insurance companies, which is, of course, a more cost-effective solution than custom development. Our app is quickly implemented and already has a set of useful features for convenient claim submissions by policyholders: a symptom checker that suggests which doctor should be consulted, an appointment scheduling tool, an interactive map to choose a clinic, and more. The app is easily integrated with existing systems for smooth and synchronized operations. Web portal development We will build an insurance portal where all stakeholders can communicate and obtain not only claims management services but also acquire policies, perform underwriting, get answers to FAQs, enjoy self-service opportunities, access data analytics, exchange medical information with hospitals, etc. Besides, we offer a ready-made customer web portal that supports certain self-service functionalities. For more information, please contact our team. Integration services The claims management process in health insurance is only one element of the complex routine. We will join all shop floor activities within one IT ecosystem by seamlessly integrating respective tools and solutions via a network of APIs so that its components play well with each other. Want to discuss your project? Send request Check out our software solutions for insurance Mobile app supporting all types of insurance AI-Based Chatbot Customer Web Portal Group and Individual Insurance Management Platform AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Policy Administration System insurance chatbot Vitaminise Pinch and spread for zoom Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs FAQ What is health insurance claims management software? It is a complex of IT products that insurance companies leverage to streamline and facilitate the health claim management pipeline. The ecosystem covers all aspects of claim handling, including claim filing, claim progress tracking, document management, online payments, and more. How does claims adjudication software contribute to health insurance processes? Solutions of this kind automate the lion’s share of related workflows, such as claims adjudication and auto-adjudication, benefit administration, enrollments, and billing. Thanks to them, insurance organizations can quickly and efficiently assess claims for coverage, medical necessity, and contract agreements. How can patient billing and claims software improve financial workflows? By integrating this module into their professional IT environment, insurance companies boost their financial workflows due to enhanced accuracy, error minimization, facilitated cash flow, perpetual regulatory compliance, and improved financial reporting capabilities. What technologies and trends drive digital claims processing in health insurance? Artificial Intelligence is the principal technology that will shape the contours of claim processing in health insurance in the foreseeable future. Its chief use case in the niche is fraud detection and prevention through firm billing control. Besides, AI will surely become an intelligent instrument for checking claims against prewired codes, policies, or providers and powering chatbots that will radically boost customer service. What benefits does claims workflow automation technology bring to healthcare providers? Companies that introduce a high degree of automation into their claims handling pipeline minimize the negative effect of human factors (errors, oversights, and negligence), improve the organization’s efficiency and productivity, step up risk management, provide non-stop regulatory and SLA compliance, and augment the overall level of services they offer. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman