Insurance digital channels Mobile apps Web portals Chatbots Modern buyers prefer quick purchases online, user-friendly interfaces, and personalized support. Insurers should adapt to customers’ expectations and develop omnichannel digital tools for customer engagement. We help insurance companies find the most effective technology means to do that. Book a free consultation What we offer Digital omnichannel customer experience is an opportunity to boost customer engagement and loyalty, reduce costs, and attract more clients. It can be achieved by the development and implementation of custom mobile applications, web applications and portals, messengers and chatbots. Custom mobile apps Reduce operational costs, improve customer loyalty, and attract new customers by introducing a custom-designed mobile app. DICEUS offers end-to-end mobile app development services, including customer journey mapping, buyer persona definition, and business analysis. Custom web portals Simplify your processes and reduce the paperwork by implementing modern web apps with unique functionalities both for your employees and customers. DICEUS offers custom web app development services discovery phase, user journeys, and full-cycle SDLC. Chatbots and messengers Reduce redundant actions and paperwork your customers should do to buy an insurance product or submit a claim. We offer to build AI-powered chatbots considering your product specifics, business logic, and relevant conversational flows. We can also integrate messengers. How we build unique digital channels for you Problems statement Together with you, we find out what difficulties you face with your current software, business processes, and customers. Business goals statement The business goals you would like to reach with the help of technology and our services are defined and clearly stated. Research We start our research with the existing software analysis (mobile app, web portal, website, core system, etc.) Competitor analysis We thoroughly study what challenges and pain points your competitors have, explore what functionalities your current software lacks, recommend the features that could help you gain a competitive edge. Key hypotheses generation Hypotheses are generated to define needs, goals, motivation, and behavior of your clients. User interviews User interviews are conducted to get detailed insights about customer goals, needs, and pains at each customer journey stage. Buyer persona descriptions Buyer personas show what experience, goals, motivations, frustrations clients have about your product. Customer journey We describe all the customer steps and activities, what they want to get at each step, and how they may feel. Business processes description Based on the research findings, we describe all the business processes your customers undergo while digitally interacting with your services and products. User stories creation We also described user stories, which are informal, general explanations of a software feature from the end users' perspective. The purpose of a user story is to articulate how a software feature will provide value to the customer. Software development life cycle Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance Example features we can develop for you Health insurance Buy different health insurance plans File a claim and track the status Keep diagnoses and doctors' reports in Medical Records Get telemedicine services Car/motor insurance Buy car insurance File and monitor claims Send photos/video of damages Make an appointment at the nearest car service Travel Select coverage and buy travel insurance File a claim and track the status Use self-service capabilities Get 24/7 customer support Property Select coverage for damages and liability Buy property insurance File a claim and track the status Renew policy automatically Elena Markova Board Member UNIQA Ukraine “We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer's research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why.” Case studies E-commerce migration from Hybris to Magento 2 for Palmers Textil Austria Retail Applications for BriteCore's P&C insurance core platform USA Insurance Verisense wearable sensing platform by Shimmer Ireland Healthcare Data warehouse for bank Jordan Banking Updated INSIS application for Fadata Bulgaria Insurance Tech stack It takes great skills and knowledge to develop software. Anyone who has ever created a technology solution understands how the right choice of the stack is important. Here you can see a list of programming languages, frameworks, databases, and platforms our IT company deals with. Other services for insurance companies Integrations We provide integration services to connect all sub-systems you need into a well-functioning mechanism. We provide consulting, architecture, data migration, and API integrations. Platforms we work with: MuleSoft, Informatica, AWS, Google Cloud, MicroStrategy, and others. Learn more Robotic process automation (RPA) We offer RPA solutions allowing businesses to improve efficiency: intelligent data processing (IDP) solutions, optical character recognition (OCR), reporting automation, customer support solutions for automation interactions between company advisors and clients. Learn more Data warehouse (DWH) We offer DWH and ETL consulting, development, and implementation services to structure your data and make it more consistent. Structured data is the best way to get valuable business insights and make data-driven decisions. Learn more Cybersecurity Insurance agencies commit to protect sensitive customer information in a reliable way. We help insurers reimagine their approaches to cybersecurity and build the right strategy (upgrade/migration, implementing security software, disaster recovery plans). Book a free consultation Useful articles about insurtech Insurance 2 min. read · 10 Sep 2026 10 Sep 2026 Webinar recap: Beyond Excel – Automating Financial Operations for Alternative Risk Companies Insurance 10 min. read · 07 Sep 2026 11 Sep 2026 Building a technology-ready captive ecosystem: The role of regulators, managers, and service providers Insurance 9 min. read · 29 Jul 2026 03 Aug 2026 Guidelines for effective insurance claims handling 2026 All articles Build insurance digital channels for better CX 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman