Core banking software development services DICEUS provides core banking development and maintenance services for financial organizations and banks, following the latest industry trends and best practices. Get in touch Core banking software development comprises services aimed at creating custom core banking software and upgrading existing core systems. Key components of core banking solutions Core banking platforms are used to manage customer accounts, daily transactions, and banking operations across various channels, including online web portals, mobile apps, and in-branch channels. Below are the key components of core banking services: Account management Handling customer accounts, including deposits, withdrawals, loans, and interest calculations. Transaction processing Enabling real-time processing of transactions, such as fund transfers and payments. Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Tools for managing customer interactions and data to enhance service delivery. Compliance and reporting Ensuring adherence to regulatory requirements and generating reports for audits and assessments. Integration Connecting with other systems, such as payment gateways, third-party services, and external databases. Security Implementing measures to protect sensitive customer data and financial transactions. What we offer You can get various core banking services, including design, development, deployment, optimization, upgrade, and support of any core banking tool or functional module. Often, we work with legacy platforms that banks want to update or change. These outdated systems lead to exorbitant IT spending related to manual, inefficient processing, poor time to market, and a lack of personalization and integrations. Modern digital tools can solve these challenges. Get your old app replaced with a universal solution for automated processing, efficient data storage and analysis, high-level customer support, and omnichannel delivery. New core banking and financial services also provide 360-degree client views, regulatory compliance, and reliable IT security measures. core banking systems 1 Pinch and spread for zoom Oracle FLEXCUBE 10% of all banked people in the world have FLEXCUBE-powered accounts. This software is modular and interoperable. It focuses on a truly digital core banking experience that evolves depending on the local financial requirements. The system has various core banking services, including machine learning, open-source development, APIs, multiple environments, and ecosystems. Number of business clients: 600 Number of accounts: 380 million Number of offices: 79 Date founded: 1997 Temenos T24 Being one of the most experienced teams, Temenos provides core banking and financial services to many major banks. It helps microfinance, community, private, corporate, and retail institutions with a digital core, front-office, and management solutions. Temenos also empowers Islamic banking thanks to the modules and rules tailored to this financial landscape. Number of business clients: 3,000 Number of accounts: 500 million Number of offices: 68 Date founded: 1993 Mobile banking app development is crucial for financial institutions. As customers become more dynamic, they prefer to access core services through apps. Even websites are becoming less demanded because people focus on the smooth native experience. When your clients can check balances, send money, pay bills, or find ATMs in a few clicks, they appreciate your effort. Hence, the mobile banking software is one of the best investments you can make right now. Speak with our banking expert core banking systems Pinch and spread for zoom Core banking services we provide 24×7 functionality for branches Application decommissioning Application and EOD issue analysis Changes and updates to existing apps Consulting and audit Data migration Database migration and optimization Database-related services EOD analysis and reporting Execution of Host EOD/EODM Issue resolution Monitoring of EOD Network monitoring Participation in new products Platform and system upgrade Preparation of test environments Support for your team Testing and validation Troubleshooting Verifications Get a project roadmap, recommendations on tech stack, and team composition. Book a call Benefits of core banking transformation Don’t miss your chance to gain a competitive edge by upgrading or transforming your core banking system. The main differentiators that you can get from a new core banking system or upgraded one include the benefits below. Cloud-native architecture decreases running costs, enables automation, and boosts resilience. We can use different cloud providers, including your private ones. Hyper-personalization available thanks to a wide range of various services. It allows banks to meet the needs of all clients and improve time to market. Micro-services and API protocols facilitate third-party integrations and help banks to scale better. This tech also decreases the cost of core banking software development. Real-time data processing provides advanced analytical capabilities. Thanks to optimized core data warehouses, businesses can access info much faster. Our core banking solutions and approaches Depending on the needs of your business, we can use one of three implementation approaches: Big Bang, Progressive, or Greenfield. The starting phases are often similar. It’s possible to develop a custom tool, upgrade your existing legacy platform, or change one module or the entire system. However, the general flow remains unchanged for all core banking solutions: pre-project assessment, discovery, engineering, quality assurance, deployment, operation and support. Big Bang approach Suitable for banks that want to change all at once, urgently. Based on the monolithic upgrade strategy, the Big Bang may occur once in a few years. Through this approach, we complete extensive data migration, a major redesign, and the replacement of nearly all CBS for all branches. Thus, it’s possible to switch to modern core banking solutions fully but with significant risks. For banks that want to urgently replace an outdated core. Risk: high. Speed: low. Progressive approach This approach is highly popular among banks. With it, you can keep your legacy core banking options but replace them step-by-step. We add new functions and upgrade modules iteratively using the “strangler pattern” that provides for rebuilding the most demanded functions via microservices. Hence, you get new features but can keep and reuse the existing code base. This is for banks that want to innovate without extra risks. Risk: low. Speed: medium. Greenfield approach Based on the cloud-native architecture, the greenfield optimization of core banking solutions focuses on customers. According to it, new clients can use the updated systems while existing ones migrate slowly through re-enrollment. It means that you can test new solutions without risking your client base. This option combines safety, speed, and cost-efficiency. For banks that want to experiment with tech safely. Risk: medium. Speed: high. What technologies are commonly used in core banking software development? DICEUS has a wide range of technologies we use for banking software projects. The technology stack is selected according to the customer’s existing infrastructure, goals, and needs. However, here are some of the most popular technologies core banking systems utilize: Programming languages (e.g., Java, .NET, Python) Database management systems (e.g., Oracle, SQL Server) Cloud computing platforms (e.g., AWS, Azure) API integrations for connecting with external services Front-end frameworks for user interfaces (e.g., Angular, React) To decide on the particular stack, we recommend starting any project with a discovery phase . This phase will help you clearly understand your business goals, develop an effective roadmap, avoid risks, and optimize project costs. The discovery phase includes the following: inventory of current implementation, high-level and low-level architecture documentation, service line analysis, SLA/OLA and metrics agreements, system configuration monitoring, and metrics. When it comes to implementation, there are three classic approaches: core banking replacement, development, or upgrade. Learn more core banking systems 3 Pinch and spread for zoom What impacts your project duration The average project time depends on the size (number of accounts in your bank) and scope (number and complexity of modules or interfaces required). For new implementations, this timeline varies from 6 months to 3 years. Migration and upgrade projects also depend on the number of accounts, products such as loans or deposits, and infrastructure readiness. Depending on the chosen approach, these projects can also take 6 to 36 months. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs The total cost usually depends on the costs of software and services. The first aspect varies from vendor to vendor. For instance, Oracle, Finastra, and Temenos have different software fees. The availability of vendor support matters a lot, too. Services depend on size, scope, and schedule. Essential factors include the complexity of integrations, localization requirements, local central bank requirements, migration strategy, the readiness of third-party services, EOD/EOM procedures, IT support, and change requests. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side Usually, banks have strong IT services. They understand what’s needed for an automated banking system implementation, migration, or upgrade. Business users also know project acceptance criteria based on the scope and other parameters. To provide the most tailored services, we will need some info from your side: available business and tech documents, access to Jira/Confluence, description of current models, SLAs and OLAs, examples of issues and audit logs, and target goals. Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available, for example, a test strategy or test cases Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Some facts about DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our tech stack Explore our case studies Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What is a core banking system? Any CBS is a general ledger that handles main operations. These processes include account management, payment processing, deposits, withdrawals, compliance, and so on. Core banking solutions integrate with other modules. They also act as core databases from which information flows to other parts of the bank. What is the best core banking system? The best core banking solutions depend on your unique needs. Do you need a sophisticated automated banking system? Want to optimize data processing? Focus on extra security? To choose the best solution, you can cooperate with a core banking developer, agree on the requirements, and get recommendations such as customized FLEXCUBE or tweaked Finastra. What are the advantages of core banking? Critical advantages of core banking services and tools center around efficiency and automation. Such software minimizes human error, cuts operational expenses, improves decision making, and helps to combat fraud. Any core banking developer can tell you that these solutions are must-have for any financial institution. Similar industry Online banking Mobile banking Robotic process automation Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman