IT staff augmentation for Raiffeisen Bank’s IT projects Services provided Staff augmentation Team extension Expertise used Cloud solutions Industry Banking Project overview Our cooperation with Raiffeisen Bank started with a POC project related to self-service terminal software development. Later on, the bank asked us about our IT staff augmentation services for three different projects. The first one, UFO, is about the end-to-end onboarding process associated with account opening for individual entrepreneurs. The second project, myRaif, is a mobile banking application. And the third one is a frontend solution for card product sales and services. For each project, the customer required additional IT staff. So, overall, we provided four developers for these projects managed by a Delivery Manager from our side. Client Raiffeisen Bank Team 4 members Country Ukraine Duration 5 months Client information Since 2005, our client, the bank, has been a part of the Raiffeisen Bank International AG Group, Austria. It is one of Ukraine’s biggest banks with foreign capital. It offers products and services to over 2.5 million retail and business customers. The bank aims to implement the latest technologies to enhance customer service quality. Business challenge As a rule, large banks have in-house IT departments that can develop and support the whole bank’s IT infrastructure. However, often they require additional resources or specific expertise to build some new modules, migrate data, or update a core system. Our customer also needed these additional resources: three backend developers and one frontend team lead/architect. Technical challenges First off, the developers from our side had to understand the customer’s business and delivery processes, get some knowledge about the projects, and then integrate into the bank’s internal teams. In addition, some projects required solving issues with CI/CD pipelines to seamlessly integrate new code. Solution delivered For all three projects, we provided seasoned developers according to the customer’s requirements. For the best candidate match, we use a seniority-level matrix with clear descriptions of what kind of experience and expertise a specialist should possess at a given level. This approach allows us to avoid misunderstandings with the client’s vision of a certain role. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Micro frontend architecture With the help of developers provided, our customer managed to create and implement a micro frontend architecture. Code reviews Code reviews were done by our developers to check the code quality. Also, recommendations and a kind of mentoring were provided to the bank’s in-house IT team. Prototype development According to the requirements, UI/UX prototypes for several projects were created and integrated with the backend. CI/CD issues solving To seamlessly integrate new code, the staffed developers had to solve some issues related to the CI/CD pipeline. Value to our client Highly skilled developers For non-IT organizations, it’s difficult to find highly skilled developers as recruiters got used to hiring mainly people educated in finance and banking. The client used our services as we have been providing IT outstaffing services for over ten years. Our candidates pass a series of interviews, including interviews with tech leads. Moreover, they should pass test assignments to become a good fit for the position. Optimized IT costs Hiring external resources is feasible for banks. Although our customer has a large IT department to support their IT infrastructure, sometimes, they need additional resources. Thus, when they needed to scale up their projects’ development with additional staff and expertise, they could engage external resources for a certain period of time without hiring full-time employees. Experience sharing Collaborating in a distributed team always facilitates experience sharing. When external and internal resources work on the same project, they definitely have what to learn and teach others. During the execution of these projects, the developers from our side provided meaningful recommendations to the bank’s in-house team on what could be improved in their code, CI/CD pipelines, etc. Our tech stack Java Angular SQL PL/SQL PHP HTML JavaScript C# Our other cases Banking Data governance project for a bank Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Banking POC for Raiffeisen Bank self‑service terminal development Banking Blockchain-based crypto wallet for ICO and crowdsales Banking Contactless payment solution Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman