Our software development and technology expertise Since 2011, DICEUS has gained the specialized knowledge, skills, and experience to deliver high-quality software solutions for various industries. Our technology expertise includes cloud solutions, DWH, RPA, IoT, data analytics, big data, and more. Speak with our consultant Send your request Discover our expertise Advanced technologies can significantly streamline your business: automate processes, improve customer experience, and drive revenue growth. With our 13 years of expertise in various programming languages, frameworks, and technologies, we’ll be happy to help you gain a competitive edge. Cloud solutions We help businesses adopt cloud transformation by developing an effective strategy. Whether you need to migrate from on-premises to the cloud or just do cloud assessment, our consultants can help you do this appropriately and hassle-free. Learn more Cloud technology consulting Cloud computing consulting Cloud enablement services Cloud support services Cloud managed services Data warehouse services We provide DWH and ETL development services—the outcomes will enable your organization to effectively manage and analyze large volumes of data. If you don’t know what exact assistance you need, start with data warehousing consulting. Learn more Data warehousing consulting Data warehouse as a service Cloud data warehouse ETL consulting Data management services Organizing, storing, protecting, and optimizing data within an organization may be daunting. Our company offers comprehensive consulting on implementing robust data management practices to maximize data value to your organization. Learn more Data analytics services Data analysis services Data science Our data science expertise comprises experience, skill set, and knowledge of artificial intelligence, machine learning, predictive analytics, and intelligent automation. Programming languages we use for data science projects include Python, R, and Java. Learn more BI services We build and implement business intelligence software to ensure faster planning, analysis, and reporting. Our technology stack and expertise include many BI and ETL tools, databases, and analytical servers. Our solutions are tailored to empower businesses with actionable insights for informed decision-making. Learn more Business intelligence consulting Big data We offer custom development, consulting on software architecture and analytical tools. Our expertise includes Hadoop, MapReduce, data quality management, algorithms modeling, ETL, data warehousing, etc. Learn more Big data consulting services AI consulting AI-based solutions simplify forecasting, customer segmentation, data flow and management, and improve fraud inspections. Our specialists can help you implement these technologies appropriately concerning your business specifics. Learn more AI integration services Artificial intelligence application development Artificial intelligence consulting services ChatGPT applications development services ChatGPT integration services Custom artificial intelligence model training Custom artificial intelligence software development Generative artificial intelligence consulting services Generative artificial intelligence development services Large language model (LLM) development services Natural language processing (NLP) services Want your project to be a success? Start it with a discovery phase! Learn more Machine learning ML technology is actively used to streamline real-time decisions, customer segmentation, recommendation systems, data visualization, market forecasting, fraud detection, and more. Our team will identify the most valuable applications of machine learning within your organization. Learn more Internet of things We help companies leverage the potential of IoT technology to gather and convert data into valuable insights. Our software solutions can be custom designed for any purpose and device, from wearable devices to complex machines. Check out our Internet of Things expertise. Learn more IoT application development Wearables We have experience building desktop and mobile applications and middleware for wearables. Our expertise includes apps for fitness trackers, healthcare sensing wearables for personal usage and clinical trials, all delivering high business value and many benefits. Learn more Embedded systems We develop embedded software for IoT and human-interface devices while bringing valuable business benefits, such as high performance, low cost, fast loading, and many more. Our solutions are always based on comprehensive business analysis and an individual approach to embedded software projects. Learn more Augmented reality services Enhance user perception and interaction with the virtual environment by collaborating with the DICEUS AR development team. We offer augmented reality solutions for retail, healthcare, education, and other industries. Learn more VR development Virtual reality opens up new opportunities across various industries. Our team can help you embrace these opportunities with custom VR applications with smooth performance and immersive experiences. Let’s talk about your project! Computer vision We build applications and systems that enable machines to perceive and understand visual information. Our services cater to a wide range of industries and applications: healthcare, retail, manufacturing, augmented reality, and more. Learn more Blockchain Blockchain solutions allow for eliminating the need for an intermediary between two sides in processes like payments, contracts, and property management. Our expertise includes the application of blockchain for supply chains, digital identity, security, and financial services. Learn more Oracle DICEUS is an official Oracle Partner with robust experience implementing and modernizing Oracle-based projects for data warehouses, databases, enterprise resource planning systems, business intelligence, core banking, and cloud solutions. Learn more Robotic process automation Intelligent automation is one of the most trending technologies used by banks, financial institutions, insurance companies, and other business domains. We have experience automating manual organizational activities and increasing operational efficiency by implementing RPA solutions. Learn more Tell us about your hiring needs! Send your request Explore our case studies Browse through 150 case studies in our portfolio. You will definitely find something similar to your project. E-commerce migration from Hybris to Magento 2 for Palmers Textil Austria Retail Applications for BriteCore's P&C insurance core platform USA Insurance Wearable healthcheck tracker Ireland Healthcare INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Germany Computer Software POC for Raiffeisen Bank’s self-service terminals development Ukraine Banking BenefitNet insurance solution UAE Insurance All case studies What our customers are saying about DICEUS Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer's research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS' software implementation services. The team's workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we'd like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman