Fintech app development services DICEUS provides fintech app development services for financial organizations, banks, technology companies that need to build a custom mobile or web application empowered with advanced technologies and innovative features. Contact our team Fintech application development expertise Reliable fintech app development services delivered by the DICEUS team enable automation, productivity boost, and higher user engagement for banks and lenders, payment processors and e-commerce stores, insurers, investors, real estate firms, and other companies working with finance. To guarantee those opportunities and more, including the benefits of custom development and smart integration of cutting-edge technologies, we design, build, and optimize all sorts of fintech apps based on scrupulous analyses and well-adjusted collaboration. Turning to a proven fintech app development company like DICEUS, you get a full range of fintech software development services from consulting and planning to coding, deployment, and launch of mobile banking apps, wealth management apps, investment apps, and more types of fintech solutions. What we offer Mobile banking apps Our financial app development company builds mobile banking apps, which are all within your online banking capabilities and provide account information, transactions, investments, support, content services like special offers, and related news. Our fintech app development experts use the latest technologies to build applications with excellent user experience to help banks and financial institutions retain and attract customers in times of high competition. Payment applications Our fintech app development services include UI/UX design, custom development, testing, and integration of iOS and Android contactless payment apps for retail, scheduling payment apps for lending, and blockchain-powered apps for secure P2P transactions. We also have expertise in mobile-browser payment apps, in-built mobile payment apps, mobile and wireless credit card readers, mobile wallets, and contactless payment apps. Blockchain applications Blockchain is a powerful technology used by many industries nowadays. Fintech leverages the blockchain benefits for Know-Your-Customer (KYC) processes, supply chain management, payments, credit scoring, records storage and management, and many more. To build a blockchain application, we have expertise in Hyperledger, Corda, Solidity, Quorum, MultiChain, Eris Industries, Ethereum, Ripple, etc. If you have any other tech stack needs, please contact us. Finance management We have experience building and integrating financial management software and web and mobile applications for internal organizational use, empowered with core functionalities like business intelligence, planning, managing, monitoring, and controlling financial assets. We can either build a custom fintech app from scratch or integrate a ready-made solution with your existing IT infrastructure. Besides, you can get a free 30-minute consulting concerning your fintech project. Loan lending applications With feature-rich and user-focused loan lending applications built by DICEUS specialists, you can facilitate both daily personal loans and complex business financing management. Namely, such software automates loan application assessments, credit scoring, and approval workflows, enabling faster service delivery at lower operational costs. We build peer-to-peer lending apps, microfinance apps, payday loan apps — you name it. BNPL (Buy Now, Pay Later) apps BNPL apps can help you reinvent consumer finance by giving your customers the freedom to purchase goods right away and pay for them in installments or other convenient manners over time. A custom BNPL app grants an organic boost for sales conversion rates through inviting and customer-tuned user experience. We develop BNPL platforms with robust credit assessment engines, seamless integrations with eCommerce systems, and user-friendly UX/UI. finapp Pinch and spread for zoom fintech application Pinch and spread for zoom Get professional consultating to develop a unique fintech app! Send request Benefits of financial application development Fintech advancements help businesses in many industries reach new values, improve customer experience, provide securer and faster services, deliver high-quality customer support. Fintech innovation presented a new different path to gain a competitive edge. Our fintech app development company will be happy to help your business understand how you can harness the latest technologies to improve the efficiency and flexibility of your processes, products and services. Security Thanks to such technologies as Blockchain, Artificial Intelligence, Robotic Process Automation, Machine Learning, fintech web development and finance mobile app development have reached a new level. A modern fintech app is a confluence of secure payment, powerful fraud and money-laundering detection mechanisms, stronger verification methods, better Know-Your-Customer processes. Our fintech teams have expertise in all these technologies and can help you build a next-gen application for your business. Speed Modern fintech applications are loved by consumers mainly because of their faster services. These applications are empowered with technologies that allow for shortening the loan decision time, sending and getting real-time payments, transferring P2P payments, and many more. Speed and price are defining factors for today’s consumer. Develop the app that fully fits your target buyers’ needs using our expertise in fintech technologies. Price Fintech technology brings many advantages to the financial sector, providing many opportunities to reduce both operational costs for your business and fees that your consumers pay for money transfers. Depending on your business sector, our analysts and architects will develop a comprehensive strategy demonstrating how you can reduce costs and improve efficiency using the latest technologies and our expertise. Efficiency Innovative technologies, especially Robotic Process Automation (RPA) are actively applied to fintech to automate manual jobs and reduce human error. Intelligent automation allows for spending less time on data entry, paperwork, filing, analyzing, and reporting. By shortening the time spent on low-value repetitive tasks, your efficiency will increase. Our RPA service offering is rather wide, so feel free to contact our experts for a free 30-minute consulting. We provide a wide range of IT services for various industries! Explore all services Want to discuss your project? Send your requirements for our team to offer you the most effective solution. Contact us Our financial web development process Specialists at DICEUS leverage years of experience and continuously expanded, relevant expertise to guarantee an individually tailored, smoothly adjusted workflow for your new fintech app development project. We keep it responsive, transparent, and efficient in order to deliver high-quality digital products on time and on budget. Analysis Fintech app development starts with an in-depth discovery of your business. Our analysts will carefully discover your current challenges and see how and what technology can help you overcome those in the shortest time possible. As a result, you will get the project strategy and roadmap and software specifications. Usually, at this stage, we can name the approximate date your project will be completed. UX/UI design The roadmap, user experience and other technical requirements are then passed on to the design team, where dedicated specialists handle the early wireframing, user journey mapping, prototyping, interface optimization, and app architecture completion. At this stage, we set the ground for the best-fitting user flow for your target audience and specific purposes, providing mockups for approval and discussing the client’s unique vision when and where needed. Development Our software development lifecycle is well-organized and follows all quality standards, which allows us to guarantee the highest quality fintech products delivered on time, scope, and budget. All teams are managed by certified project managers that speak English fluently and ensure smooth communication between a vendor and a client. Testing Fintech web and mobile app development requires sophisticated quality assurance and testing as these apps should be very secure, scalable, and user-friendly. Thus, we provide all types of manual and automated testing, use SonarQube, perform regular code reviews and cross-reviews. The testing strategy, along with pre-defined metrics, is agreed upon in the initial project stages. Deployment Deployment is done on the client-side by the client-side efforts. However, our team will inspect your environment for any gaps and technical issues. If there are any, you will get a list of recommendations on fixing those before the deployment date. We will guide the whole process up to the public launch and help with post-launch updates, fixes, and optimizations to the best of our ability. What impacts your project duration The total duration of a fintech project is affected by many factors, including your project’s tech stack, team size, and overall scope of complexity. The most important individual duration-shaping aspects are. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Type and complexity of a blockchain solution What affects your project costs To estimate the cost of a fintech project, we consider a lot of things, from the depth of technical skill required to the extent of specific services we’ll need to provide. The price-forming essentials include the following. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We will need some information from your side, I.e., your goals and vision that are crucial for the appropriate planning. Based on that, we will create a software specification document. We appreciate it if you provide us as much data as possible. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Which organizations gain from developing custom fintech software? Custom fintech software development grants digital foundations for SMBs and enterprises, induces startups with the power of innovation, and enables more opportunities for more industries and types of providers operating in them. Banks and neobanks Traditional banks and credit unions can start offering mobile banking, digital wallets, peer-to-peer payment systems, and other modern financial services, gaining a competitive edge. Digital-only banks can get the capacity to provide full-scope banking services without outdated brick-and-mortar branches. Startups can create niche banking solutions focused on specific demographics or underserved markets. Investment banks can develop trading platforms, robo-advisors, or analytics tools for their clients. Payment processing companies Companies that handle online transactions, payment gateways, or point-of-sale (POS) systems can streamline financial processes throughout. Businesses can integrate innovative payment solutions like contactless payments, QR code payments, or blockchain-based transactions, automating essential business processes. Insurance companies Insurers can reap the benefits of tailored insurance app development with solutions for policy management, claims processing, customer support, and premium payments. Investment and wealth management firms Firms can digitize and automate investment advisory, portfolio management, and stock trading, as well as build new cryptocurrency trading platforms. Robo-advisory services can be implemented and integrated to provide algorithm-driven automated financial planning and investment strategies. E-commerce and retail businesses Companies can easily start offering in-app purchases, integrate financing options like buy-now-pay-later (BNPL), and expand their payment solutions. Retailers can also create loyalty apps or feature-rich digital wallets. Cryptocurrency and blockchain companies Businesses can enhance their grasp on digital currencies through custom blockchain-based payment systems or decentralized finance (DeFi) platforms. DICEUS creates exchanges, wallets, and platforms that allow users to buy, sell, and manage cryptos. Real estate and proptech providers Firms can design customizable mortgage calculators, property investment platforms, and individual rental management tools. We can create real estate marketplaces integrated with fintech solutions for secure payments, fractional ownership, or property financing. Our tech stack Explore our case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Financial SmartValor blockchain app development Software product Pinpoint payment plugin optimization Financial Web-based binary option platform on cryptocurrencies Banking Blockchain-based crypto wallet for ICO and crowdsales Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What kind of financial app does your business need? It all depends on your industry or niche of operation. If you don’t have one yet, we can help you decide which market segment is the most fitting to occupy for you. We can also help you conceptualize if you only have the need or demand for a fintech software product but lack the expertise and skill for its design and implementation. If you have any ideas on a fintech app for your business, it’s great. However, if you have any doubts, it can help you, contact our fintech team and get free consulting. We will develop a strategy in which you will see how modern technology can help your business grow, including business values, the right technology stack, the right resources, roadmap, and work breakdown structure. What is the best language to build a fintech app? Today, Java and Python are considered the best programming languages to build a fintech app. However, language choice will mainly depend on the project’s specifics and complexity. Our tech leads will consult you on the best suitable tech stack for your fintech application development, whatever it will be, a mobile app, a web app, or a complex banking system. We can also create custom tools, integrations, plugins, and APIs for specific purposes, like expanding and customizing an existing app, connecting new software to legacy solutions, and more. If you already have a development team, we can help you train, augment, or expand it to close expertise gaps and boost performance. How much does it cost to build a banking application? The cost of any project depends on its complexity and scope. Also, the chosen technology and platforms make a difference. Our specialists can estimate the cost of your project based on your requirements and business analysis, highlighting the most closely approximated cost range based on the choice of technology, approaches/methodologies, and timeline. More than that, we can help you cut excess where possible and minimize hidden or unnecessary extra expenses through an efficient workflow, in-depth project analysis, and guaranteed post-project RoI. We prioritize reasonable cost bars and are ready to go the extra mile for you. Similar industry Blockchain Payments Software development for financial services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman