Professional legacy app modernization services Get consulting What we offer We provide a comprehensive service, identifying your challenges, creating a modernization strategy, and developing a technology solution. By modernizing legacy applications, our clients get many benefits, including increased flexibility, improved operations, higher security. Legacy application modernization services Pinch and spread for zoom Software audit We do a software audit to discover if your existing systems and application are as effective and secure as they should be. One of the most important outcomes of this analysis is revealing the opportunities you can seize once you upgrade the IT landscape. Legacy application audit also uncovers security vulnerabilities, performance issues, expensive licenses, and many more. As a result, we help you figure out if there are any chances to reduce costs while improving software quality. Modernization strategy Our legacy app modernization services start with defining the right strategy. We have experience moving from outdated monolith solutions to microservices, cloud, reverse-engineering in case there’s no source code, and project documentation. We also offer refactoring, technical debt prevention strategies, re-architecting, rebuilding, UI/UX improvements, software integration, decommissioning. Based on in-depth business analysis, we’ll offer you the strategy that best suits your organizational needs. Custom development In case you need application modernization solutions, we will offer the relevant IT services to implement the changes. Our analysts, architects, and developers have not only strong technical background but also have experience building projects requiring specific niche/domain knowledge. We offer custom functionality development and integration based on in-depth new business values analysis and guaranteed outcomes. Migration services We offer IaaS, SaaS, and PaaS solutions that can bring you such benefits as high ROI, reduced IT costs, faster time-to-market, saved time. Our cloud computing technology stack includes Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform. We provide migration services assessment after discussing your challenges and identifying cloud-to-cloud or on-premise to the cloud options. Decommissioning In cases when you would like to completely replace your old software with a modern solution, we offer application retirement services while preserving access to important historical data. It means you’ll be able to access the data stored in your legacy systems and/or move it to a new database with our professional data migration services. Software sunsetting allows reducing IT costs for legacy application management and maintenance. UI/UX Improve user experience and refresh application interfaces using our redesign services. We use available resources of your current software product and our approach to UI/UX modernization to deliver a new view of your website, enterprise-level system, or application. Our front-end technology stack includes HTML5, Angular, React, VueJS, and many more. You’ll hardly meet a company that doesn’t think of digital transformation today. The competitive environment and innovative technologies drive businesses to improve their IT infrastructure. We are a legacy software modernization company that helps organizations reshape their business models and find new values by implementing up-to-date software solutions to meet current consumers’ and market demands. Legacy application modernization services allow us to bring new life to your existing systems. We will enrich your outdated software products with modern functionalities, UI/UX, improved scalability, and performance. Get consulting Legacy application modernization Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of our legacy application modernization services With fast technology development, new market trends, and customer demands, time comes when you will decide to refresh your website or add new functionalities to your enterprise system. We help companies find their new look, discover new values, and renovate their systems. Quick start We are a legacy modernization company to offer you a quick and easy start of your project. First off, we conduct business analysis to identify your needs and requirements. Next, we will provide you with a Work Breakdown Structure that divides your project into smaller tasks so that you are aware of every further step. On-time delivery Thanks to coherent planning, critical path development, and a standard-driven approach to development, we guarantee on-time software project delivery. At the beginning of cooperation with our team, you will know the approximate date of your project release. We also ensure the high quality of project outcomes due to well-defined QA processes. Project control We provide legacy application modernization services focusing on transparent cooperation, high quality, and customer satisfaction with outcomes. You can monitor project execution in our unique custom-tailored customer portal. There, you will see all changes made, get notifications, get access to the project, team, and financial documentation. Scale-up capabilities We have a huge base of developers that specialize in various technologies, have different seniority levels, and expertise across multiple business domains. It’s always easy for us to quickly find developers with the required skills set if we don’t have such in-house. If needed, we can also offer a dedicated development team upon your request. Our legacy software modernization process We are a full-service legacy application modernization company with a standard-driven approach to software development. Our knowledge of various modernization practices and industry domains allows us to deliver the most effective solutions on time, scope, and budget. Legacy application analysis We analyze your existing systems to find out the best ways to upgrade them without disrupting your business continuity. Our work is aimed to identify the most attractive opportunities and business values modernization can bring. Project execution Once all requirements are formalized, we proceed to the project execution. All the legacy application modernization solutions and projects are managed similarly as other web, mobile, or custom software projects — by certified project managers. Integration services When the software solution is developed, we integrate it with the rest applications used within your organization. Besides, we offer user training services with clear user guidelines and assistance from our professional consultants. Support and maintenance Apart from legacy modernization services, we are at your disposal for technical support services, such as further maintenance, bug-fixing, troubleshooting, and many more. Our technicians are available for advisory and help with various schedule options. Get consulting What impacts your project duration The time needed for legacy app modernization mainly depends on the factors below. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Modernization strategy What affects your project costs The cost of any custom project depends on the following things. Project scope and complexity The chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side To provide high-quality legacy app modernization services, we need the following things from you. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our achievements Our tech stack Get consulting Explore our case studies Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Insurance Updated INSIS application for Fadata Frequently asked questions What do you mean by legacy app modernization services? You need legacy application modernization services if you want to modernize outdated software systems or those apps that don’t meet current users’ expectations, market demands, compliance regulations, or you just want to update, refresh, renovate them. What Is the importance of application modernization solutions? Application modernization solutions can significantly reduce costs for their management, improve user experience and interface, increase customer satisfaction and revenue. Move with the times by reinventing your IT landscape. Why choose us as a legacy application modernization company? We offer comfortable cooperation and guarantees that you hardly get from other software vendors. To earn your trust and prove that we’re worthy of becoming your partner, we offer free strategy sessions for your projects – contact us to claim one. Similar services Custom software development services Software support Software audit Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman