Data migration services and consulting Get consulting on migration What we offer Below are the major types of services we offer in terms of data migration. However, if you have specific needs, our advisors will help identify your challenges, define business values, and offer comprehensive data migration consulting and strategy. Data migration services Pinch and spread for zoom Cloud migration Migrating from an on-premise server to the cloud is a good way to optimize data storage and processing in your organization. End-users of cloud solutions can get data anytime they need it, from any point of the world. We offer cloud migration services from server to cloud, and from cloud to cloud, as well. Our cloud expertise includes Azure, Oracle, Amazon Web Services, and Google Cloud Platform. Database migration We provide database migration service with guaranteed business continuity and minimized downtime. Our experience and approach to custom projects allow us to perform homogeneous migration, from Oracle to Oracle, and migration from disparate platforms to a unified database. According to your unique requirements, we will come up with a detailed database migration strategy. Enterprise system migration Consider data migration services if you plan to migrate from one enterprise system to another. It is crucial to have a consistent approach, including data preparation, schedules for ETL processes, data content for migration, data quality, and verification criteria, etc. We are experienced in various enterprise systems, such as enterprise resources planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), content management system (CMS). Data migration We offer advanced data migration services with guarantees of business continuity, full back up, and high quality of our solutions. We have experience performing a migration from different hosts, platforms, digital assets, document and content management systems. Localization and content migration are also a part of our services. Data migration services are usually associated with the project aimed to help you smoothly transfer large data volume from a historical system to a new one. We have experience executing data migration from legacy applications to cloud, from legacy enterprise platforms to modernized or new solutions, from disparate systems to a unified database. Get consulting on migration Data migration consulting Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of database migration service The messy data flow and bad data management can cost you millions. Today, data has significant importance as it affects your business outcomes. We offer software migration services and data migration solutions to help you get more revenue from your data. Data integrity We collaborate with your departments and project stakeholders to determine how to make your data consistent, structured, and organized. Our solutions are aimed at converting your business information into valuable insights. Reduced costs Organized and high-quality data positively impacts various business areas and reduces costs for operations. Our team offers free consulting on data migration and provides a comprehensive strategy for your project. Improved decision-making With quality and organized data at your fingertips, you can make decisions faster, create data-driven reports, and improve decision-making in your organization. We are here to help you migrate your data smoothly. Digital transformation With the latest data management and storage technologies in place, you can bring your company to the next level and gain a competitive edge. Our specialists will provide you with the most effective data migration strategy designed for your organization. Our custom software migration services We follow a well-defined and standard data migration procedure consisting of planning, migration itself, and post-migration stages. Below is detailed information on product reengineering and data migration services. Analysis The data migration projects start with defining data migration objectives and scope, developing migration approach, requirements gathering, datasets assessment, and prioritization. Together with stakeholders, we define data quality evaluation criteria and discuss migration prerequisites. Planning According to requirements, we gather data and all the needed information for secure migration. We also analyze the migration feasibility and develop roll-back scenarios, create a test plan and strategy for migration automation, collect data cleansing, transformation, and verification requirements. Migration At the migration execution stage, we formalize software and hardware requirements, and come up with a custom-tailored approach if your project is too specific. According to pre-defined patterns, we extract, transform, and load data, which is further verified to ensure that the migration was performed appropriately. Post-migration The post-migration phases include data verification aimed to discover if the data is consistent, accurate, and meet the new repository’s process. We also check both the historical system and the new one for various defects, inconsistencies, and gaps. The scope of software re engineering and data migration services may also include legacy system decommissioning. Get consulting on migration What impacts your project duration Migration services time varies and usually depends on the factors below. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms The volume of data and number of data schemas and systems to be transferred What affects your project costs The cost of migration services depends mainly on the project scope and the other factors pointed below. Project scope and complexity The chosen technology The chosen integration platform Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side Every project is unique, and we may require different things from you, however, traditionally, the list is as follows: Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Get consulting on migration Explore our case studies Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Insurance KloonRisk – an insurance broker solution for Kloud-Soft Retail E-commerce migration from Hybris to Magento 2 for Palmers Textil Frequently asked questions What is data migration software? That’s the software, platforms, and cloud solutions you’ll need for data migration projects. We use the latest tools and technologies for data migration planning, execution, and post-migration services. How much does data migration cost? The cost of software migration and application re-engineering services usually depends on the project complexity, scope, technology, and other factors. We provide estimation upon your requirements. Which is the best approach for data migration? There’s no single approach to data migration as it depends on your requirements. Our team is always available to consult you on the best strategy for your project and demonstrate our portfolio. What are the steps in data migration? Data migration requires following these steps: analysis, consistent planning, execution, and post-migration phase that may include decommissioning and software support. Similar services Web app development Legacy application modernization System integration services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman