Blockchain solutions and services Talk to our blockchain developers What we offer Blockchain development services have brought disruption to many industries, especially to the financial one. It has also introduced to businesses many opportunities to increase their security, efficiency, and speed of transactions. If implemented appropriately, blockchain can positively affect the way you run your business operations. At DICEUS, a blockchain development company, we have experience building blockchain solutions for digital assets, real estate purchasing platforms, voting apps, binary options platforms, crypto wallets for ICO, and crowd sales. Our blockchain development service and expertise allow us to design and build applications addressing specific-industry challenges. Blockchain solutions and services Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of blockchain development services Harness the power of blockchain to make your business stand out from the crowd. We help and guide companies through the blockchain journey offering new opportunities and benefits. The key advantages of blockchain development and implementation include higher cybersecurity, conflict management capabilities, optimized KYC processes, and reduced operational costs. Learn more about the benefits or ask our blockchain experts for consulting. Prevent fraud Fraud prevention processes involve many resources that could be used more effectively. Blockchain solutions, such as digital fingerprints, also referred to as cryptographic hash, can be used for advanced authentication. By adopting this technology, your business can benefit from improved data sharing, efficiency, and security. We offer blockchain consulting and development for any security purposes arising in various industries. Manage contracts Managing blockchain contracts goes with no intermediaries and can increase the credibility of your company among customers. Our expertise blockchain developers write code for smart contracts based on pre-defined terms. Once developed, all contracts are tested for vulnerabilities and bugs to ensure high quality and security of the final solution. Our specialists can also consult you whether such contracts make sense for your business and offer a suitable option. Accelerate KYC Know-your-customer processes, improved with blockchain technology, provide capabilities for faster clients onboarding, better anti-money laundering compliance, and advanced analytics for analyzing customer behavioral patterns. Depending on your industry, we can supply you with a relevant blockchain chain solution for analytics and develop a comprehensive implementation strategy. Reduce costs Using blockchain expertise allows for decreasing costs for transactions, operations, and security in many industries, particularly finance, banking, fintech, and insurance. With faster, securer, and cheaper transactions, you could introduce to your customers quite a different service level, improve customer loyalty and retention. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our blockchain technology solutions and services Being one of the trending technologies, blockchain is being adopted by many industries. We offer our professional assistance in your digital transformation initiatives. Blockchain consulting We help companies understand whether blockchain expertise can make sense for their business and what actual values it can bring. Our specialists consult on crypto wallets, shared ledger, blockchain transactions, smart contracts, ICO, Ethereum apps, digital identity and other blockchain-based solutions. Blockchain development We offer tech advisory and consulting on blockchain technologies and solutions, blockchain software development, testing, and deployment services. Our development process starts with your business challenges and IT infrastructure discovery to prepare the create the specification that meets your requirements. Smart contracts We help businesses create code for smart contracts according to pre-defined contract terms and requirements. Documents will be encrypted on the shared ledger for high security and backed up on the blockchain. The developed contracts are tested and checked for any inconsistencies, vulnerabilities, bugs, and accuracy. Private blockchain We help companies create and set up private blockchain networks to complement your business processes and make them more efficient. The private blockchain projects start with an in-depth analysis of your company operations and understanding your functional and non-functional requirements for delivering expected outcomes. What impacts your project duration The duration of a Blockchain project is affected by many factors. The most important are mentioned below. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Type and complexity of a blockchain solution What affects your project costs To estimate the cost of a blockchain project, we consider a lot of things. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team Chosen technology What we need from your side Our clients trust us and know that we will deliver their project on time. However, we usually need to get some information from your side. What matters for the appropriate project planning and execution — your goals and vision. Based on your requirements, we create software specifications that’s why we appreciate it if you give us as much information as possible. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Financial SmartValor blockchain app development Software product Pinpoint payment plugin optimization Financial Web-based binary option platform on cryptocurrencies Banking Blockchain-based crypto wallet for ICO and crowdsales Frequently asked questions What are blockchain solutions? Blockchain development solutions are considered to be one of the most remarkable technological innovations for the last years. Bitcoin, other cryptocurrencies, and trade exchanges are built based on this technology. However, today these solutions are used in fintech, banking, insurance, etc. What is blockchain good for? Blockchain is good for any business network that wants to increase its software product security, improve efficiency, and reduce operational costs. It gives lots of opportunities to enter new markets, attract more customers, and gain a competitive edge. What is blockchain technology? Simply put, blockchain technology is a chain of blocks (a special structure) each of each has time marks and a hash of the previous block. The chain is continuously growing; its data is very secure and is protected from fraud. Similar expertise BI and Reporting Robotics process automation (RPA) Data warehouse and ETL Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman