Data warehouse as a service Contact a DWH consultant What we offer Data warehouse as a service (DWaaS) is a solution allowing organizations to store, organize and manage databases with an in-cloud infrastructure. Better efficiency, stronger security, and higher performance are typical traits of a DWaaS, encouraging businesses to depart their on-premises data management systems gradually. The leading cloud service providers possess many financial and technical capabilities that most companies can hardly afford to build and maintain a reliable and up-to-date data warehouse. Thus, adopting DWaaS solutions allows organizations to forget many limitations when storing and processing data. We provide our clients with a complex approach to their data management by creating a cost-efficient and resource-saving data warehouse in the cloud. We help them avoid data-flow bottlenecks and infrastructural pitfalls while benefiting from the best modern practices of in-cloud data governance. We offer numerous DWaaS features and capabilities that make managing data easier, such as security and compliance controls, reporting tools, and many more. DWaasS services we offer Pinch and spread for zoom DWH development We help establish the foundation for effective data management and analysis with our advanced DWH development. The process involves creating and defining the data warehouse structure, specifying the types of data to be stored in the warehouse, as well as identifying and connecting to the various data sources. DWH configuration Setting up a cohesive and effective DWH structure goes with specific technologies and tools. They can vary depending on the needs and requirements of each individual business and project. Some of the most commonly used technologies and tools for DWH configuration include cloud servers, enterprise data warehouse software, business intelligence software, data integration tools, reporting tools, and more. DWH integration The process when multiple data sources are integrated into a unified and centralized storage system is essential for any business that relies on data stored in multiple locations. DWH integration helps businesses manipulate their data more effectively, thus leading to improved decision-making and performance. DWH integration is a crucial step in any DWaaS project, as it allows for more seamless access and analysis of data across various sources. Data migration Assisting organizations in migrating their data smoothly from one source to another, we use the best migration practices, such as planning and scoping the migration process, reviewing existing data and structures to identify commonalities and differences, and testing the migration process thoroughly to ensure that all data has been migrated successfully without any missing or inaccurate information. DWH support We support organizations with a variety of critical data warehouse services by providing a cloud-based platform for their data management and storage. Our support service package includes everything any company may need to establish an effective data management system: DWH development, data migration, DWaaS integration and configuration, etc. DWH consulting Our DWH consulting services include but are not limited to such aspects and activities as providing guidance on the best data warehouse structure for a given business, defining the types and sources of data to be stored in the data warehouse, designing and implementing an efficient data management and analysis plan, and assisting with the selection of data warehouse software and related tools. Transforming any company into a data-driven enterprise is an urgent demand of our time. Cloud platforms are here to provide all the necessary resources for up-to-date data warehousing. Our DWaaS solutions offer powerful vehicles to deliver any organization from the on-premises past to the in-cloud future. Trying to acquire tools and technologies to proceed with cloud-based data warehousing without relevant skills and expertise is questionable. Professionals can do better and faster in any case. Moreover, the entire process appears cheaper with the experts since their approach is rational in doing nothing redundant or wrong. DICEUS helps you save a lot of time and money by utilizing numerous opportunities of our advanced data warehouse platform as a service. Contact a DWH consultant Benefits of DWaaS Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of a data warehouse as a service DWaaS can be a worthwhile practice for any business seeking to establish a data warehouse, as it provides an effective way to manage and analyze data without the overhead associated with maintaining and operating a self-hosted solution. The following aspects inherent in the DWaaS paradigm reveal how organizations can benefit from doing data management in the cloud. Reduced upfront costs and resources DWaaS solutions are inherently less expensive and resource-intensive than self-hosted ones, as they are designed and developed specifically to be hosted in the cloud. Hence, businesses using DWaaS solutions do not need to purchase or acquire their own hardware or servers to store, manage, and analyze their data. DWaaS solutions reduce the cost and overhead associated with operating a traditional data warehouse platform, making them a more efficient way to achieve the same results. Flexible DWH architectures to scale up Any business growth implies continuously increasing data to be processed. DWaaS solutions provide the flexibility and scalability necessary for businesses to adapt to their changing business needs and the evolving data landscape over time. Such flexibility allows companies to avoid the costs associated with maintaining their own hardware and servers while still having access to a comprehensive and robust data warehouse platform. Additional resources for advanced data management DWaaS solutions can provide businesses with access to advanced resources for data management that can help them better understand and predict trends and patterns within their data. Such resources can be invaluable for businesses looking to improve their data-driven decision-making and performance. They include advanced analytical tools, AI capabilities to interpret and classify data automatically, machine learning algorithms to predict outcomes based on historical data more accurately, etc. Easy-to-use toolsets for professional data analytics DWaaS solutions can be a powerful resource for data analytics that help businesses make more informed and effective decisions based on their data. The relevant capabilities include advanced data visualization tools for more apparent data interpretations, data mining tools for discovering and extracting valuable information from datasets, and predictive analytics algorithms for predicting outcomes based on historical data. Data warehouse as a service: How it works DWaaS works by providing businesses with access to a comprehensive and powerful data warehouse platform hosted in the cloud. Such a platform includes the storage, calculation, and analysis capabilities required to effectively store and manage even the largest and most complex datasets. It allows businesses to leverage their data regardless of its size or complexity while providing data owners with complete access to the information they need to make data-driven decisions. To successfully adopt a DWaaS solution, a company should proceed with the following: Revise the existing self-hosted data warehouse Before switching from the on-premises data warehouse to DWaaS, a company should thoroughly evaluate its existing data warehouse and its specific business needs. Such evaluation should include an assessment of the company’s data volumes and storage requirements, as well as the size and complexity of its data and the specific data management and analysis functions that it requires. Harmonize positions with a DWaaS vendor To make the cloud transition smoother, a company should share its technical requirements for the desired DWH solution with a selected DWaaS vendor. The better the understanding between parties, the easier the way toward a high-performing in-cloud system is. A selective approach is essential for the architecture and functionality of the solution to avoid excessive complexity with underutilized and redundant components. Prepare and perform data migration Professional DWH developers use specific tools and technologies to help businesses effectively migrate their data to a DWaaS platform and ensure that all data is accurately and securely transferred without any issues or errors during the migration process. Typically, such tools and technologies include but are not limited to data extraction tools, data migration software, replication engines, and data cleansing techniques. Provide DWH integration and configuration The in-cloud DWH configuration aims to ensure that any specific business needs are properly reflected in its structure. It means that the selected DWaaS features correspond to the business goals and align with a typical workflow of the company. The integrated data sources should be easily accessible with the established DWaaS solution to provide cohesive data flows for subsequent processing and storage. Contact a DWH consultant What impacts your project duration Every DWaaS solution is highly individual as it is developed for a particular organization with specific needs and goals. At the same time, a common algorithm for project execution is available. Violations in its steps can result in delays with the DWH completion. The following factors can impact your project duration badly. Insufficient or poorly performed assessment of the existing on-premises data warehouse Underdeveloped project requirements represented to a DWaaS vendor Poorly arranged data migration performed without relevant skills and expertise The size and range of data sets: the larger the data, the longer the process The data complexity: sophisticated data sets require more processing and analysis time What affects your project costs No one-fits-all calculation for different DWaaS projects is available. Every project has an individual cost estimation. Every project’s technical structure and organizational model can have different variables resulting in various work scopes. Thus, the specific factors affecting your project costs can include but not be limited to: Pre-development preparations aimed at assessing the range and complexity of elements to be available in the future in-cloud DWH Modifications in the DWH model when data integration occurs through different algorithms of extraction and storage Hybrid data migration implies sophisticated methods when on-premises hosting remains working in parallel with the in-cloud DWH Implementation of advanced technologies of predictive data analytics The number of DWH users having access to the system under different roles with different permissions What we need from your side A practical approach to DWH development implies tight collaboration between a DWaaS vendor and a company. Mutual understanding is essential to avoid delays in project execution and redundant expenditures. To harness the efficiency of DWaaS adoption, a company should provide us with the following: A thoroughly performed evaluation of the exiting DWH infrastructure (if available) Technical requirements for the in-cloud DWH according to the company’s business model The number and types of sources to be used in data extraction The range and complexity of the desired data analytics tools The staff composition and related permission limitations regarding access to the in-cloud DWH Our tech stack Contact a DWH consultant Explore our case studies Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Frequently asked questions What is a data warehouse as a service (DWaaS)? Data warehouse as a service (DWaaS) is a solution allowing organizations to store, organize and manage databases with an in-cloud infrastructure. Unlike self-hosted on-premises DWHs, DWaaS solutions face limitations with neither storage space nor computing power. DWaaS vendors utilize the enormous technical capabilities of the global cloud platforms with their abundant hardware and software resources. Clock-around customer support, regular infrastructural upgrades, and a cumulative knowledge base of the world-best experts constitute the DWaaS advantages unreachable by any self-hosted system. What are the 4 aspects of a data warehouse? The 4 aspects of the data warehouse are as follows: Firstly, data collection is gathering information from different sources and storing it in a single data warehouse. Secondly, data management is organizing and managing data once it has been collected to store it in a structured and accessible format. Thirdly, data analysis is analyzing and interpreting data to make informed and effective decisions. Fourthly, data visualization presents data in a graphical format to be easily understood and interpreted. What can be an excellent example of a data warehouse? Google’s data warehouse is an excellent example of a large-scale and powerful data warehouse that can serve a very specific business need and purpose. The solution provides a massive amount of information to users worldwide, enabling Google’s various products and services. Similar services Custom CRM development DevOps consulting Data warehousing consulting Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman