Security solution for Gunnebo Services provided Mobile app development Manual testing UI/UX design System integration Expertise used IoT Embedded solutions Industry Software product Retail Project overview Personal and corporate security can be significantly reinforced with the help of new advanced software and hardware solutions. Remote control, personalized access, data and item storage can be safely managed via specialized applications. This is especially relevant when you have to manage a retail store. People need accessible, modern means of remote control, which should go beyond using a smartphone as a TV remote control. A number of interconnected can be managed via one app for universal convenience. Client Gunnebo Business Solutions Team 2 members Country Sweden Duration 6 months Client information The Gunnebo Group is a Sweden-based global provider of advanced hardware and software solutions and services for controlling valuable assets, including finances, individual valuables, and even staff members. Companies, establishments, and regular people from over 25 countries employ Gunnebo services to improve the security of their belongings, introduce efficient inventory management, or optimize the overall workplace functionality. Business challenge Modern retail management needs a serious update. Beacons, remote-controlled doors, locks, and alarms of all sorts, and other solutions are readily provided by Gunnebo for stores to enhance and improve functionally. Another question was providing convenient, intuitive controls for all that equipment. For that, a centralized application seemed like a perfect idea. The capabilities it provides are especially relevant in the times of the ongoing pandemic when direct contact between customers and specialists must be minimized. Technical challenges We needed to build a feature-rich, extensive yet smoothly operating mobile solution based on the complex .NET microservices architecture. Xamarin forms and .NET were the essential tools in the core of the project. The app required commercial functionality, an accessible interface that ties many individual elements together, and optimization according to the existing Gunnebo retail security and management solutions. Solution delivered Gunnebo Security Solution is a big application for business automation and retail management with extensive device management capabilities. It can be used to control Gunnebo products that are already integrated in a store or a supermarket, manage in-house specifics, and remotely access various sales funnel-pushing elements in retail chains. The app is a smoothly-running, user-oriented business management assistant optimized for both iOS and Android devices. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features License-plate recognition Users can order a product online and get automatically recognized as a customer on the store’s or storage parking lot. Online orders Individual Gunnebo services and products can be conveniently, rapidly ordered via a user-friendly mobile application. CCTV automation Smart automated recording, editing, and viewing features can be integrated with Gunnebo CCTV systems. Device connection The app can be readily used to manage and connect with a huge number of Gunnebo products a retail store employs. Value to our client Business automation The single mobile app can be used by a retail chain or a supermarket to reach a new level of in-house workflow automation. Simpler management Managing the underlying retail aspects and efforts becomes that much simpler when you have an all-in-one solution on a smartphone. Centralized access Multiple users can access the same functionality tied to the same devices for a more thorough in-house control. Our tech stack Xamarin Forms .NET Core Microservices Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman