Enterprise web development DICEUS has 13 years of experience in building custom web applications and complex systems for enterprises. Our company is an official partner of Google Cloud Platform, Oracle, and Microsoft. So, we'll be happy to work with your requirements and offer the most effective technology solution. Speak with our expert Start with a discovery phase Create from scratch or modernize your system Enterprise-grade web solutions may feature dozens of complex functionalities, modules, and elements. All these ensure the smooth workflow of the business and its growth. Thus, it’s critical to pay diligent attention to planning enterprise web development projects. Our team has extensive experience building corporate web solutions, including custom development from scratch, legacy system development, integration, system modernization, stand-alone module development, and more. Besides, we have excellent experience developing CX strategies for various industry sectors, including insurance, banking, and healthcare. Enterprise web development Pinch and spread for zoom Enterprise web development services we provide Enterprise website development Choose professional enterprise website development to get more than a common CMS. Enterprise-level websites should deliver values and align your visual presence with business logic. Our team builds websites using comprehensive strategies that consider enterprise content management, APIs, intuitive design, and high security. Enterprise web app development We offer end-to-end development of different types of web applications: dynamic apps and static apps, e-commerce apps, portals, content management systems, progressive web apps, and many more. The scope of our turnkey development services includes business analysis and requirements gathering, design, development, testing, and deployment. User interface and experience To ensure the most effective performance of your web app or website, our UX researchers and designers conduct an in-depth analysis of your business, target users, consumers, and industry. Thanks to that, you get an intuitive, user-friendly design aligned with your company’s brand, voice, goals, and objectives. System integration services You might need system integration services in case you would like to get more than a website. If your enterprise has complicated business logic and requires multiple functionalities, we can integrate your web app or site with any existing digital solutions you already have. How does an enterprise web software development project start? If you are confused about what features you need, our experts will help you build a clear specification, roadmap, and timeline for your project. Besides, we offer free 30-minute strategy sessions to discuss everything that bothers you regarding software development. After the call, you will also get a lot of useful materials that will help you kick-start your project quickly. Enterprise web development services Pinch and spread for zoom Free consulting for your project Discuss your requirements with our experts Send request Benefits of enterprise web application development services By delegating your project tasks to a leading enterprise web development company, you can save much time for the core business. By using professional custom software development services, you get high quality, fast time-to-market, compliance with security, and industry-specific regulations. All in one place. Our team especially loves creating corporate apps and websites as we have great experience in that area and like complex projects. Wide tech stack To build a web app or create a website for your business, you’ll need to use a combination of front-end and back-end technologies. By outsourcing project development, you can delegate this task to a software vendor. Our experts will choose the right technology stack for your app according to the specification. Security testing We take care of all security measures to be implemented for your web application. For this reason, our team will identify all potential threats and risks beforehand and will come up with a comprehensive strategy to implement, test, and maintain the cybersecurity of your web system. Agility and flexibility Outcomes guarantee You get guarantees that your project will be delivered on time, on scope, and on budget. The highest level of quality is ensured by regular code reviews, quality assurance standards compliance, and different types of testing. Agility and flexibility We offer Agile methodology to develop and manage IT projects for enterprises. That allows for iterative stages and faster results. However, if you’d like to follow methodologies like Waterfall or others, we do provide those upon the client’s request. Must-have features of enterprise web applications Enterprise web applications are complex and robust systems that serve the needs of large organizations. These systems should be reliable, scalable, and secure. Some must-have features are introduced below. However, each organization may have its own set of functionalities they need for daily operations. Integration User management Customization Analytics Mobile compatibility Data backup and recovery Compliance and regulations Performance monitoring GDPR Compliance Version control Accessibility Customer support Do you need any other services? Discover all services Want to get a project estimate? Contact us Our partnerships DICEUS’s enterprise web application development process Our SDLC is built with regard to best practices and years of experience we had developing custom software. Our processes are well-organized, efficient, and oriented to deliver high-quality outcomes. Typically, our development life cycle consists of the following stages. Business analysis The BA stage is one of the most important steps to identify the current and future needs of your enterprise, project goals, and vision. The business analysis document becomes a basis for specification and technical proposals, as well. Design and development Our enterprise portal development company creates custom designs for businesses with alignment to their industry specifics. The development will be managed by PMO-certified managers, with an account manager allocated to coordinate your communication with the team. Deployment Traditionally, deployment is done on the customer’s side, but our DevOps will help you get ready for this process. They explore the client’s environment and IT infrastructure to check for any possible gaps that can impede the successful deployment. Technical support This stage of SDLC is essential if you want to add any features in the future or need continuous technical support and troubleshooting. At any time during the project execution, we could agree on this service. Want to learn more about our company? 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Let’s collaborate! Learn more about DICEUS and we’ll be glad to become your enterprise web development partner! About us What impacts your project timeline The time to develop a website or web app usually depends on several factors. Project requirements Expected time-to-market Team composition Chosen technology Chosen methodology What affects your project costs Enterprise web development cost depends on a few peculiarities of development, which include the following things. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team Number of add-ons What we need from your side We kindly ask you to provide the following information to effectively collaborate on your enterprise web project. Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if you have any. If not, we will help you to create all these docs. High-level project requirements, if any Project-specific documentation, if available, for example, a test strategy or test cases Your availability (a couple of hours per week to discuss requirements and your business needs) Deadlines, if you already have some estimations Our achievements Our tech stack for enterprise web development projects Explore our case studies Financial services Software Audit for Wilson & Franco Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Frequently asked questions What is enterprise level web application development? Web development for enterprises refers to the development of web apps or websites for businesses. Usually, it may also comprise integration, modernization, or optimization services aimed to integrate a web app with other apps, migrate from a legacy system to a new one, or improve the existing web solution. What are the benefits of enterprise web development services? The advantages of enterprise web development services are quick project start, development according to a project roadmap with all quality standards followed, and access to an extensive technology stack. That’s an excellent way to get your website done professionally. What is the cost of enterprise web development? The total cost can be calculated only when all the requirements are formalized. However, you should know that it usually depends on such factors as scope, the complexity of the project, the chosen technology stack, required deadlines, and many more. What is an enterprise website? Enterprise websites are usually used by various businesses, governmental organizations, agencies, and other large entities. These websites are robust systems with functionalities required to support business operations and initiatives. These features may be functional, like order tracking or user management as well as non-functional, like scalability or integration capabilities. To define what you actually need, you should consult with a professional IT vendor specialized in enterprise solutions. The latter will help you conduct an in-depth business analysis and build the right system or upgrade your legacy application. What is enterprise development programming? This type of engineering is aimed at creating an enterprise-level system according to specific requirements. This process includes business analysis, architecture design, UI/UX design, development, testing, and deployment. For example, such projects may be about building a CRM system or implementing a business intelligence solution for an existing ERP solution. The introduction of a powerful technology solution to employees and customers may bring lots of value, such as increased productivity, improved customer loyalty, data-driven decision-making, etc. Before creating such an application or upgrading the existing one, stakeholders should identify their key goals and formalize the requirements with the vendor. Similar services System integration services Mobile app development Web app development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman