IT services and solutions for retail DICEUS provides retail IT services for traditional retailers, e-commerce businesses, specialty retailers, food chains, pharmacy chains, and other types of retail businesses. We offer both custom software development and implementation of ready-made software systems. Discuss your requirements Retail IT services are provided for retail businesses that need to create software from scratch, modernize existing software, or find out how to improve their operations with innovative technology solutions. Our IT services and solutions for retail IT solutions for customer experience Customer experience is the only key factor that helps retailers individuate among their rivals. DICEUS offers custom IT solutions for retail to turn ordinary contact centers into omnichannel communication portals covering multiple aspects of the customer experience through voice, text messages, email, chatbots, and social media. Our solutions enhance customer assistance with the most up-to-date digital technologies to turn every interaction with your customers into another strategic advantage in the fierce competition. Proactive support and clock-around monitoring provided by our IT services for retail can add more value to every moment your customers spend with your business. IT solutions for ecommerce Out-of-the-box ecommerce solutions drive retailers to e-market without pre-adjusted individual features that provide an unprecedented customer experience, allowing your clients to distinguish your business from others. DICEUS offers custom IT solutions for ecommerce that include those features. We create easy-to-use e-commerce software with individual designs that have no redundant functionality. At the same time, we provide our clients with everything necessary to fulfill ecommerce orders. Tax-calculating options, communication and support, payment gateways, efficient product inventory, and any other feature can be integrated into your custom IT solution upon request. Supply chain management solutions Moving physical products over global and local supply chains through digital services is what DICEUS sees as the value we can add to your business with our supply chain software solutions. This is about both the optimization of production and distribution and the synchronization of supply and demand. Planning purchase seems to make no sense without planning supply and distribution. Our supply chain solutions facilitate planning to help retailers adopt business automation in product delivery. We create highly customized supply chain software capable of meeting any replenishment scenario. AI and data analysis solutions Nowadays, no business agenda is viable without efficient data processing. Every customer generates a lot of data to be analyzed for precise sales predictions and well-targeted marketing. DICEUS helps collect raw data related to your business and process it with advanced artificial intelligence algorithms. Our machine-learning options help bring your business analysis to the farsighted strategies for leaving your rivals behind. There is no magic, but clever engineering is what our AI and data analysis solutions imply. The deeper the understanding of a market situation is, the richer the retail business becomes. Computer vision Based on your business requirements, we can implement computer vision solutions for various purposes: to improve customer experience and engagement, automate inventory and store operations, analyze customer behavior, gather analytics, provide innovative payment solutions, and many more. Virtual reality VR software for the retail sector transforms the shopping experience by creating immersive, interactive environments that engage customers like never before. From virtual stores and product try-ons to 3D showrooms and staff training simulations, our solutions enhance in-store and online retail. retail it solutions Pinch and spread for zoom retail IT services Pinch and spread for zoom Let’s discuss your project requirements Get a recommended tech stack, team compositions, and project roadmap Send request Benefits of our IT services for retail Bespoke solutions It is possible to copy someone’s infrastructure to replicate the success. However, the approach is dangerous since modern customers appreciate individuality. They would hardly accept Amazon 2.0 and the like. Just be yourself and impress your customers with the bespoke retail solutions created by DICEUS that are exclusively for you. Let’s merge your vision of retail with our software expertise. We know how to make your business ideas come true with advanced digital technologies. We practice an individual approach to each customer while believing that every retailer is unique. System modernization Technical progress never stops. Your infrastructure has to keep pace with the digital zeitgeist since the IT environment is constantly changing. DICEUS helps retailers upgrade their IT infrastructures according to what the current ecommerce market requires. The sky’s the limit regarding the modernization of software systems. This concerns your business profitability when your infrastructure starts working faster with fewer errors and downtimes. Besides, we can add new features and functions to the existing systems to make your workflows more flexible and efficient. Maintenance and support Whatever happens with software happens for a reason. Only professionals can figure out the reasons for this and fix the system. Leave your system maintenance to DICEUS and dispose of your time to make strategic business decisions. Retailers know better than anybody that customer support can hardly be overestimated. Allow both your customers and your staff to be effectively supported by software experts. Well-timed system updates and predictive maintenance become easily affordable with IT services provided by DICEUS. We set no temporal limits for our customers regarding system maintenance and technical support. Vast technology expertise Experts become experts with nothing but an authentic experience. We always proudly introduce our finished projects in various industries to interested customers. We have spent years creating a team of professional engineers and architects who know everything about the most up-to-date software technologies. Our portfolio demonstrates the vast technology expertise we possess. Visit our website sections dedicated to industries and services we can professionally deal with to ensure that customer expectations can be met with cost-effective solutions from DICEUS. Our retail IT services process Requirements gathering Every project starts with a specific business idea. It is up to customers to explain what business results they expect from software products they are going to order. Retailers often do not care about the technologies used to achieve what they want. And that’s all right since technical means belong to developers’ expertise. The initial stage of any development lifecycle is requirements gathering, when customers indicate what the future product should do in the context of their retail routines. UI/UX design After customers deliver their vision of the future product, our specialists create an SDS (software design specification), which includes the desired features, software technologies, and frameworks for product development. The designing/prototyping sub-stage begins to finalize the configuration of the future retail solution and the development agenda for engineers and architects. Development Programming moves over the iteration procedures determined by one or another project management method (Waterfall, Scrum, Kanban, Lean, XP, etc.) selected for the current project. According to the method, the customer can be involved in ongoing approvals and amendments. QA and testing Writing code is only half the battle: customers pay for a well-working product, not for code. Hence, quality assurance and testing appear less important than programming. DICEUS never performs tests somewhere along the line: all of them are pre-planned in detail and meticulously recorded. The more complex the developed solution is, the larger the variety of tests must be performed. DICEUS puts a special focus on QA because we share all reputational risks with our customers in case something goes wrong with the already deployed solution. Besides, future maintenance and technical support can become trouble-free if QA and testing are executed with due diligence. Deployment and launch Developers are unlikely to relax when finished software is deployed. In many cases, deployment is far from a once-off process: software starts working part by part after the finished elements have passed through necessary iterations in the development lifecycle. This is about savings in time when CI/CD (continuous integration/continuous deployment) methods are practiced. Besides, only real working conditions allow a new product to demonstrate its operability under intensive traffic. The retail business is dynamic enough to make a post-launch operation experience valuable for developers. Get professional consulting on retail IT services Send request What impacts your retail IT services project duration Although many software solutions for the retail industry look similar, they may require different periods to be completed, especially regarding the highly customized retail solutions we use to propagate. Software development is a very artistic process that implies many non-trivial approaches, and the timeframe is hardly predictable. Nonetheless, our specialists can calculate more or less precisely the working hours necessary to complete the project when SDS is available. In general, the following factors should be taken into consideration: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms What affects your project costs As in the case of project duration, each retail solution’s cost depends on the developed software’s final configuration. There is a direct correlation between the work required to complete the project and the final price. We always represent a transparent calculation in which even customers who stay far from software development can find exhaustive information about why the solution costs as it costs. Such info usually includes the following cost-determining factors inter alia: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time & Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We never require a ready-to-use SDS from our customers: creating such a document is far from what they do in their business. However, we seek to collaborate as tightly as possible with our clients to avoid any misunderstanding in the future development process. That’s why we propose arranging face-to-face meetings (the online ones are also acceptable) to reach a shared project vision through the most natural communication. If such meetings appear problematic for some reason, we’d like to get the following data from customers to start our work: Project goals, vision, and a roadmap, if available High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available Client’s availability for weekly gathering sessions Our tech stack Explore our IT case studies for retail Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case Frequently asked questions Do you provide business analysis, and what are the deliverables of this service? Our vast experience allows us to provide business analysis in the domains where we feel confident regarding software technologies. The results of any business analysis are usually formalized in the deliverables dedicated to various stages of a business lifecycle. We can deliver standalone documents that cover the following business aspects: 1) business profile: a backstory of the business, prominent drivers, a domain (domains) where the business can successfully run, presumed vulnerabilities and problems, dependencies and responsibilities of the business owners; 2) use case specification: the business requirements along with the desired functionality to be achieved, the approaches to be used to implement one or another IT solution according to a current business model, the approximate cost and possible risks. Can you recommend what software we use should be modernized? We provide our customers with various consulting services, including assessing their software and hardware infrastructures. We can check the status of the software products used by our customers to figure out whether they correspond to contemporary IT standards. We can do both performance tests and the codebase review to detect system elements that ought to be modernized. The origin of the customer’s system does not matter: DICEUS can dissect any software to grasp its structure and functionality. The results of our analysis can be represented in the form of a document with our suggestions on possible upgrades and modernization. How are you different from other custom software development companies? In contrast to many rivals in the software development sector, DICEUS never looks for one-time customers. We expect each of our clients to turn to our permanent partner. This means that we clearly understand the degree of responsibility we’d like to share with our clients regarding everything that might happen with the IT solution we create over its entire lifecycle. Every custom software solution requires an individual approach. This is the most delicate point in the relationships with customers since the tiniest incompetency from our side can result in severely destructive effects on our reputation. That’s why we never “wash our hands” after launching the solution. On the contrary, DICEUS always seeks to establish a true partnership with every customer regardless of the scope and cost of the solutions and services that are ordered. Services you might be interested in E-commerce apps Retail apps POS software Business intelligence Supply chain management Discovery phase Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman