HIPAA compliance services At DICEUS, we help healthcare providers maintain electronic records and protect confidential information through perfected HIPAA compliance software. By taking charge of security, we help you concentrate on primary operations and make the necessary advances in the healthcare industry. Here is how our HIPPA compliance services can help you secure your business in practice. Book a call Send request All healthcare-related organizations process, transmit, and obtain electronic protected health information (ePHI). To maintain the trust of their patients, employees, and other stakeholders, they need strict security measures that will mitigate privacy breaches. Fortunately, a HIPAA-compliant solution helps incorporate the standard for sensitive patient data protection based on access controls, data backups, encryption, etc. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act is a federal law that applies to developers creating software for medical facilities that process PHI electronically. HIPAA compliance services we provide At DICEUS, we help healthcare providers dealing with sensitive data achieve all-around compliance. Our specialists can find innovative ways to grant high-level security without interrupting existing business processes. Here are the main services we provide to put our corporate customers in a position for long-term compliance. Risk analysis and mitigation plan We conduct a HIPAA risk analysis by reviewing an organization’s existing HIPAA policies. We then remediate security deficiencies by developing a mitigation strategy, a series of steps designed to restrict potential risks. Cybersecurity audit and strategy Our HIPAA consultants aim to stop cyber criminals from causing costly damage to businesses. We help healthcare providers design and implement a cybersecurity strategy, ensuring HIPAA compliance. Transitioning and safely storing data in the cloud helps prevent data-related lawsuits in the future. HIPAA compliance assessment We review an organization’s software to guarantee its compliance with HIPAA requirements. We also assess documentation, conduct interviews with medical personnel, and assess existing work practices. If necessary, we define measures to strengthen the existing security infrastructure. HIPAA-compliant solutions We employ our experience in healthcare IT and secure software development processes to create progressive HIPAA-compliant medical solutions. We make sure that an organization’s workflow is streamlined to achieve potential clinical goals. Multi-faceted testing is required to keep software adjusted to the healthcare needs of all stakeholders. We provide 1-hour consultations for free, so you are welcome to apply. Send request Challenges you can overcome with HIPAA compliance Data collection and protection is a critical matter. Healthcare organizations should not skip a single detail if they want to reduce their vulnerability. Following that, we have a list of challenges you can overcome through HIPAA compliance. Poor privacy protection HIPAA compliance support establishes strong privacy protection for medical data. It ensures that healthcare providers manage all information with the highest confidentiality and only reveal it for official purposes. If personal confidentiality is put at risk, HIPAA law requires you to notify the affected person immediately. Your software should rely on a cybersecurity policy that includes notifications to inform responsible regulators about security breaches. Healthcare fraud and abuse HIPAA helps healthcare businesses deal with fraud and abuse through special measures intended to detect and prevent suspicious activities. This protects patients from data leakage and other fraudulent activities. Patient privacy rights should remain undamaged for smooth HIPAA data sharing throughout healthcare fraud and abuse investigations. Low customer trust and retention One of the fastest ways to lose customers is by making them feel unsafe. If they cannot entrust their private health information to your medical facility, they will not stick with you for a long time. By meeting HIPAA requirements, you ensure all information is protected by efficient security policies. Trust brings loyalty and, eventually, greater client retention and referrals. Lack of control over electronic health records Any document containing health data and a legally binding signature takes extra layers of security to enable patient privacy. Due to technological advances, HIPAA-compliant services stay at the forefront of maintaining the security and privacy of electronic health records (EHRs). Namely, by implementing standards for the protection of EHRs that eliminate unauthorized access. Missing legal compliance and accountability HIPAA establishes transparent standards for healthcare organizations, contributing to general legal compliance. It also keeps facilities less vulnerable to data breaches and security violations, with potential penalties and sanctions for low compliance. HIPAA regulations enable greater control over personal health information and keep those with access to that information accountable for incorrect use. Looking for professional IT services? Explore all services Want to discuss your challenges and needs? Contact us Why is it important to be HIPAA-compliant? Compliance with HIPAA regulations is a must for all healthcare-related organizations. HIPAA standards help them improve medical services by enabling health data exchange. To achieve and maintain data security, HIPAA needs organizations to use compliant software that supports encryption techniques. Due to the growing data misuse in healthcare, the software must address all HIPAA compliance tech policies and securely share information with other systems. As a result, healthcare organizations get a range of benefits that enhance patient care and operational productivity. By prioritizing patient trust, safeguarding data security, and consolidating strategic operations, HIPAA establishes a strong basis for ethical medical practices. Here are the key benefits of timely turning to a HIPAA expert like DICEUS: Patient safety culture Private and public healthcare organizations should maintain a safety culture for overall work productivity. This can be done by training medical personnel to follow HIPAA procedures accurately and deliver patient-oriented services. Establishing this culture equips any facility with the necessary tools and knowledge to bolster security practices and guarantee the necessary level of protection for every patient. Increased profits HIPAA advocates standardized healthcare, enhanced efficiency, and reduced fraud, which are crucial to improving the profitability of the healthcare industry and job security for healthcare professionals. Through HIPAA compliance, medical facilities can improve patient loyalty so that fewer resources must be invested in attracting new patients and delivering high-quality medical care. Reduced medical errors Due to HIPAA compliance, healthcare specialists and patients work together to build accurate medical files. With a few parties involved in the process, it decreases discrepancy and the possibility of making errors in medical records. This enhances the overall safety and quality of patient care, as medical specialists are assured of data quality. Instant upgrades to electronic health records (EHRs) contribute to operational efficiency. Trust and loyalty Organizations that are HIPAA compliant deserve more trust because they take good care of sensitive data. Protected health information (PHI) is critical data that cannot be revealed to third parties. When you are HIPAA compliant, you establish safeguards that ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and accessibility of PHI. When patients know they can trust their healthcare facility, they are less likely to consider a different organization for their medical needs. Why DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available At DICEUS, we have strong expertise in the healthcare industry and broad experience developing healthcare software complying with HIPAA. Bringing HIPAA-compliant healthcare solutions to the market can be a time-consuming process requiring certain knowledge and tools. This is why we offer our assistance in this regard. One of the most common ways to enable data security in HIPAA-compliant software is to encrypt it with different layers of protection. Most healthcare organizations utilize encryption technology to protect customer data. We can help you implement encryption across the board to keep data safe from the wrong hands. Limiting data sharing is another way for your medical personnel to see the minimum information required to perform a task at hand. Furthermore, you can try activity monitoring to keep track of all login attempts and breaches. With the right software in hand, any of the above measures can promise a solid result. Thanks to our professional software development experience, we can deliver a resilient and secure healthcare solution that meets your preferences and fulfills your requirements. Our company aims to enhance healthcare quality through progressive technology, and we are glad to complete any tasks to transform your business into a HIPAA compliant company. Let us highlight our expertise in developing HIPAA-compliant software here and now. How it works When working on a healthcare project, we design and implement new software with HIPAA regulations in mind. This way, we ensure that all patient data is kept confidential from the get-go. The team at DICEUS takes certain steps to establish a HIPAA-compliant solution. Analysis and planning The discovery stage helps us understand project objectives and gain a clear understanding of the business context. It is required to create a straightforward plan for project realization, as well as establish HIPAA compliance. At this stage, We process all preliminary information to deliver a rough estimate of the future project. A business analyst creates a precise feature list after client interviews. Before delivering our HIPAA-compliant IT services, we explore project requirements in detail to kick off a healthcare solution that meets all strategic goals and expectations. UI/UX design Our specialists introduce design options for the user interface and navigation features. It is important to provide an appealing user experience that will result in enhanced user engagement. Today, more people use their smartphones when managing their healthcare. Our designers build UIs that deliver intuitive and smooth experiences while addressing all HIPAA Compliance policies. They also perform UX research and develop interactions with software based on usability and accessibility metrics. Healthcare software development Each software development element must be HIPAA compliant upon its implementation and further change. Software developers use secure coding practices to build data storage that secures PHI from scams, guarantees data integrity, and implements access controls, encryption, and other technical safeguards. Before the official launch, HIPAA penetration testing may be required to precisely approach areas of non-compliance within healthcare organizations. Release and maintenance The HIPAA-compliant software needs to be efficiently released and properly deployed to the relevant systems. At this point, we guarantee that the software is incorporated with existing systems and functions accurately. The incorporation process is always conducted without hindering or damaging current operations. After the official release, we provide support services to immediately address any issues and concerns that may arise, such as security breaches and compliance audits. Software updates may be required to guarantee compliance with HIPAA policies and meet the growing needs of healthcare organizations. Our SDLC Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance Our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage FAQ What is HIPAA compliance? HIPAA is the federal law that makes sure your protected health information (PHI) is kept secure from unauthorized access. It helps healthcare providers and associated businesses manage sensitive data and maintain the safety standards required to store data correctly at all times. What is needed for HIPAA compliance? Healthcare organizations need safeguards to protect PHI data. Access controls, transmission security, mobile device usage policies, risk management planning, and employee training are just some things to establish for HIPAA compliance. How much does it cost to hire HIPAA compliance services? The cost for professional assistance of HIPAA compliance consultants may range from $4,000 to $78,000. The final price depends on a healthcare organization’s size, needs, and current digital infrastructure. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman