Individual and Group Insurance Management Platform All-encompassing individual and group insurance management platform for insurance businesses, employers, and employees to manage individual and group health, life, pension, auto, and other insurance plans and benefits. Request a demo For insurers Insurers get an all-encompassing individual and group insurance management platform with modules to handle key insurance operations: Workflows and business rules Implement automated workflows for individual and group insurance policy administration, claims processing, invoicing, and client onboarding without the need for custom development. Product and policy administration Create and administer new individual and group insurance products, and set coverage levels, exclusions, and benefits. Key functionalities include policy issuance and enrollment, policy renewals, terminations, and modifications, group premium calculation. Quote generation, invoicing, and billing Respond to customer inquiries and create tailored individual and group insurance quotes and proposals. Generating invoices, importing, validating, and processing multiple invoices simultaneously. Client (Individual/Group) management Create client profiles, manage client data and documentation, manage and configure various insurance plans, and provide support. Claims and reimbursement processing Claim management functionality enables bulk claims upload, automated claim validation, and reimbursement. Functionalities like multi-step claim approvals and integration with healthcare providers or car repair stations for direct claim handling automate workflows and prevent fraud. Reporting and dashboards Generate reports and real-time insights, use interactive dashboards and KPI tracking, task and workflow monitoring. Reporting and dashboards can be customized according to insurance business requirements to track various data, including claims, policy renewals, enrollment trends, benefit usage, etc. Discover a seamless way to manage individual and group insurance policies, claims, invoicing, and more – all in one platform Book a demo For brokers Our individual and group insurance management system allows brokers a lot of self-service capabilities to create and customize quotes, manage multiple clients, process bulk enrollments, and more: Value Fast information monitoring and sharing with clients and insurers, leading to better customer loyalty Compare insurance from multiple insurers Create customized proposals and share those with customers Enroll groups of customers Calculate premiums automatically Integration with insurers and HR systems for faster claim processing Claim status tracking Bulk documents uploading/downloading For TPAs To efficiently handle policy administration and other key insurance operations, third-party administrators can use our insurance management platform for groups and individuals. It offers the following functionalities: Organize and handle different insurance plans for one client or multiple clients Help clients sign up for insurance Process claims Manage and track payments Generate reports Values: Employee transferring to other plans Faster claim processing, approvals, and settlement Seamless collaboration with insurers and employers Simplified policy creation, renewals, and updates Reports are generated automatically, based on specific formats and needs Learn how our platform can help brokers and TPAs manage individual and group insurance Book a demo For employers and HR managers Bulk operations Handle large amounts of data and carry out large-scale actions: Initial enrollment into specific insurance plans Document uploading/downloading Mass updates of employee information Modifying coverage Employee transferring to other plans Generating and processing premium statements Deleting inactive employees, outdated plans, drafts, documents Value Reduce administrative load, save time, improve data accuracy, and simplify HR procedures Group employee enrollment Upload employee data and get employees verified. Define eligibility criteria, for example, employment status, period of work, new hires Assign contact persons Value Eliminate manual paperwork Employee management Keep track of employee insurance plan data, dependent information, and coverage specifics. Add new employees Remove employees from current plans Modify existing information about employees (marital status, address, dependent) Generate reports on employee plan actions, such as claims costs and utilization, premium contributions, etc. Value Keep accurate data and generate reports for well‑informed management Explore how our platform can benefit your insurance business Book a demo For employees Employees can use a self-service portal with convenient functionalities to do the following: Value No need to contact HR managers for simple actions that can be done on your own Access and view their insurance plans Update personal information like address, contact details Track claims Get notifications on plan changes or claim status updates Download policy-related documents Add and modify dependent information For individual customers of insurance companies Offer individual clients a user-friendly mobile app to conveniently interact with your company. Our SuperApp allows customers of insurance companies to buy various insurance policies online, submit claims, and get the required information instantly. Value Reduced operational costs, decreased workload on call center, better customer engagement, and higher revenue Supports health, life, unit-linked, and car insurance products Has a super user-friendly interface Built with a deep understanding of insurance workflows Has valuable features like digital insurance cards, event-triggered proposals, payment reminders, requests to update policyholder information, and many more Innovative features specific to a particular insurance type, for example, Avatar symptom checker for health insurance or funds rebalancing for unit-linked products Multilingual, with an in-built LLM chatbot Fully customized according to your company’s branding, needs, and business goals Find the right solution for your needs Talk to our expert Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Insurtech Solutions at DICEUS Benefits Reduced costs Due to the automation of key group insurance management processes, operational costs can be significantly cut. Improved CX Streamlined processes, automated notifications on policy renewals and claim statuses enhance customer experience and loyalty. Faster time-to-market New group insurance products and digital services can be launched rapidly without complex IT development. Scalability The multilingual, multicurrency, multitenant platform allows scaling across markets, corporate clients, and subsidiaries with localized compliance support. FAQ What is an insurance management platform? Our individual and group insurance management platform is a comprehensive software solution that provides all essential digital capabilities to manage individual and group insurance plans for various target customers. The latter include insurance businesses, brokers, TPAs, employers and employees, and individual customers. For example, for insurance companies, the platform offers several modules, including product and policy administration, reporting, claim management, and many more. What type of insurance can this platform manage? This platform can manage various types of insurance, including health, life, unit-linked products, car, travel, home, and others, for individuals and groups. How to implement the platform? Implementation process is quick and clear. Our team clarifies business processes with the customer and customizes the ready-made functionalities according to the company’s branding and workflows. Is there the possibility of offering mobile access for individual customers and group customers (employees)? Yes, our platform can be integrated with our ready-made iOS and Android mobile app designed to support various types of insurance (health, life, car, unit-linked). For each type of insurance, it gives a variety of helpful self-service functionalities that allow users to buy insurance online, submit claims, upload and download documents, get 24/7 customer support, and more. What features does your individual and group insurance solution offer? Our solution offers features for several target users: insurance companies, brokers, third-party administrators, employers and HR managers, employees, and individual customers of insurance companies. Each target user group is provided with its own exclusive set of functionalities required by their workflows and for their specific needs. Insurers have access to features offering smooth work of policy administration, quote generation, billing, customer management, claim management, and other crucial processes. With our solution, brokers can create and customize quotes, manage many customers, and do various bulk actions, etc. A comprehensive list of features for all target groups is available on this webpage and can be provided during the demo session. Simply book a demo to receive a more detailed overview of the functionalities that interest you. Can the system integrate with our existing HR or ERP systems? We offer seamless integration with most HR, payroll, and ERP platforms via APIs and custom connectors, ensuring data synchronization and smooth workflows. That allows you to share and access data across departments in the most efficient way, avoiding data silo and manual tasks. Is it possible to customize the solution to meet our specific insurance workflows? Yes, the platform can be customized to align with your organization’s processes, compliance requirements, and branding. What are the key benefits of using a ready-made digital solution for group insurance management? Our ready-made software product offers a faster time-to-market compared to custom-built solutions. It enhances accuracy, streamlines operations, improves customer experience, ensures regulatory compliance, and provides real-time access to policies and claims data. Can this solution help reduce operational workload? By automating routine tasks such as enrollment, claims monitoring, and reporting, the platform significantly reduces manual work, errors, and operational costs. How do you ensure the security of sensitive employee and policyholder data? All our ready-made software products for the insurance industry are developed with security in mind. We use industry-standard encryption, role-based access controls, secure cloud infrastructure, and regular security audits to protect sensitive data. What other products can we offer to manage insurance? We offer core insurance modules that cover all key insurance processes, including policy quotation, policy generation, claim management, billing and invoicing, reporting, and dashboards. These modules can be implemented separately as stand-alone solutions, which is convenient if you don’t need complex and expensive core insurance systems. Another software product we have built for insurance companies, brokers, TPAs, and MGAs is our SuperApp, which is a ready-made iOS and Android mobile app serving life and non-life insurance businesses and providing a variety of self-service, up/cross-selling, customer engagement, and other opportunities. We also offer system integration and custom software development of such systems as a digital claim management insurance platform, a compliance management platform for insurance companies. Other ready-made software products Data Warehouse for Insurance Alternative Risk Platform Captive Owner Portal Risk Retention Group Management Platform Policy Administration System Platform for captives and captive managers Insurance General Ledger Platform Group Insurance Management Platform for Life & Pensions AI-Powered Chatbot Super App Customer Web Portal AI-Powered Underwriting Platform for Life Insurance Reinsurance Platform​ Broker Portal Underwriting Workbench for Health Insurance AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Group Health Insurance Management Platform Captive Management Platform All solutions Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman