Custom banking software development services Unleash the full potential of technology for your bank. We provide custom development services, including system integration, legacy system modernization, data migration, and many more. Get in touch Banking software development expertise Banks, superbanks, and digital banking solutions require sturdy custom software capable of supporting and driving the success of finance, data, and security-tuned infrastructures. The full range of banking software development services that we deliver at DICEUS encompasses all the expertise, know-how, tools, and technologies to cover every angle of your banking software project. DICEUS banking industry software specialists are ready to take on the planning and design, development and deployment, optimization and improvement, and launch and promotion of your software product. We build innovative solutions to power market-defining apps and platforms, be it a mobile app dedicated to your bank or a full-blown multiplatform superbank — a fully digital, personalized banking infrastructure. Here’s what we do: Online banking We are a financial software development company with twelve years of expertise in developing online banking systems encompassing a whole package of functionalities from scratch. If there is a need to upgrade the existing web banking, we are also at your disposal. Mobile banking We build mobile banking solutions with a number and variety of functionalities required by your needs and processes. The basic features include account management, payments, money transfer, notifications, GPS, and personal financial management. Learn more Core banking systems Our teams deliver projects associated with such core banking platforms as Oracle FLEXCUBE , Temenos, and Finastra. The range of our services for core banking consists of custom engineering, system or module upgrades, software audit, technical support, testing, and IT consulting. Learn more DWH for banking A centralized DWH can cover a lot of gaps related to data that exists in banks and make all your data organized and structured. Our teams have experience in DWH architecture, ETL processes, data aggregation, data migration, maintenance of databases, and legacy applications decommissioning. Learn more Robotic process automation We provide RPA integration to help banks improve their adherence to regulations, risk management, and customer experience and make operations more efficient. Our expertise includes RPA solutions for risk management, compliance, AML, fraud inspections, and customer support. Learn more AI development for banking AI-based solutions can help banks resolve some of the pervasive difficulties related to customer experience, decisioning, and forecasting. We are a banking software development company that develops AI-powered systems that provide a 360-degree view of banks’ customers, their behavior, and historical data. Learn more We help banks rationalize their processes to increase profitability using the power of technology and by providing our financial software development services. In today’s reality of the fast-changing global economy, banks must be prepared to tackle the issues related to efficiency, customer experience, and compliance. Therefore, you can upgrade your outdated systems, eliminate technical debt, and improve data management. DICEUS’ banking software development expertise includes core banking systems, data warehouses, cloud computing, cybersecurity, robotic process automation, etc. Challenges with financial services software? Apply for a professional consultation! Send request Some interesting statistics Engineers with expertise in banking are hard to find According to Deloitte, in terms of custom financial software development, many banks find it the most challenging to find tech specialists in the following niches: engineering, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, data analytics and data science, risk management, and modeling. 84% of businesses face challenges adopting AI 84% of respondents in the recent Deloitte survey faced challenges adopting artificial intelligence. AI turned out to be the top challenge, followed by cybersecurity issues, difficulties with cloud computing, and RPA technology adoption. Digital solutions matter if you want to retain customers According to Ernst and Young, in the US, banks continue closing their branches as customers prefer more digital engagement. 70% of banks review their core banking According to McKinsey, 70% of banks are now about to review their core banking systems. mobile_banking_app_design Pinch and spread for zoom Challenges we help banks overcome with our services Time-to-market Fast software development lifecycles with a guaranteed quality of execution. We know how to build custom solutions to serve as the backbone for banks, digital banking service providers, and financial institutions requiring faster, more connected performance. And we build them fast, based on well-polished methodologies. Authenticity Seasoned specialists bring their experience and proven expertise to your project. We are well aware of all the latest market trends and financial sector requirements, offering unique expertise-driven perspectives on how your project lifecycle can unfold in the most long-term efficient way possible. Marketing and impact Helping to launch, promote, and market new banking solutions with a bang. We share methods and implement aspects that help achieve active customer engagement organically through inviting design and technology expertise put at the core of user the top-notch experience. Cost-efficiency Achieving convenient project conditions and software solutions that stay in line with your budget through well-tried technology, experience, and individual approach. We personalize technology stacks and tailor projects to your existing capacities, helping to battle hidden costs and unnecessary extra features. Key advantages of choosing DICEUS for financial custom software development Our technology expertise Technology is probably the top thing capable of making any business differ from its competitors. However, to implement any technological solution, you should understand the environment it is meant for. Thus, financial services software development requires strong expertise in the banking industry fundamentals, processes, instruments, etc. Our developers, architects, and business analysts are highly experienced in software engineering and know how your specific niche is functioning. We have a strong background in developing data warehouses, 360-degree systems, data aggregation hubs, core banking systems, mobile banking solutions, and many more. Thus, our team will be glad to apply their competency to new software development banking cases. Effective solutions Being aware of the latest banking challenges is critical for any Software Developer and Architect. Only then can they offer the most relevant solution to your pressing issues, such as cybersecurity, data integrity, compliance, digital transformation, user experience, etc. We know how to help banks gain meaningful value even in times when fintech companies are offering better services and significant economic initiatives when compliance regulations are changing very rapidly. Our discovery phase is aimed at detecting your biggest issues and finding the best regtech solutions. Ultimately, our complete software audit services can come in handy if you want to fully explore the efficiency of the technologies you use. Focus on project goals We deliver financial software development services with project goals in mind. Our specialists ensure on-time delivery with project objectives, 100% gained. For this, we have developed well-structured procedures in pre-sales, business analysis, functional analysis, design and development, testing, user acceptance testing, deployment, etc. Our PMI-certified Project Managers control the process of development and ensure effective communication between our clients, C-level executives, and teams. Project Managers also communicate the project objectives to all stakeholders so that everybody understands them correctly, avoiding any ambiguity possible. They provide continuous support to engineers by answering their questions and clarifying unclear issues in requirements. Quality We guarantee the high quality of banking software development solutions created. That’s because we have a well-organized quality assurance process ensured by regular code review, quality standards, and the usage of a traceability matrix to check the alignment of project requirements with functionalities. We also use and calculate various metrics, which are usually pre-defined in service level agreements for you to measure and control the quality. Before the product goes to deployment, you will be able to test it at the user acceptance testing stage. If there are any comments from your side, we will discuss them together with the team, and they will take those into consideration. Respective fixes will be implemented. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available How we work At DICEUS, we offer building banking and financial solutions according to a well-organized SDLC. Here’s how it works. Business analysis We begin projects with business analysis, discovering your initial requirements, existing challenges, and objectives. All these important aspects can be explored during the first engagement meetings. By getting everything gathered, we then offer our clients the finance software development solutions that are best suited for their institutions. As deliverables of the BA phase, you will get a compelling project roadmap, the timeframe, requirements, a specification document, etc. Design and development These are two critical stages of software development when we create the software. Before the development, the product’s architecture and infrastructure are developed together with various mock-ups. The development life cycle is managed by PMI-certified project managers to ensure in-time iterations and high-quality results. Also, they guide you by hand in case of any misunderstandings or in need of any assistance. Testing We use all types of manual and automated testing to ensure the highest level of end products. In banking software development, testing plays a significant role as this software is used by millions of people. All these users demand high security of their personal data, user-friendly interfaces, and quick customer support. The testing strategy is discussed in advance during the BA phase. Usually, it includes the types of testing to be used, the testing team composition, deliverables, and more. Deployment Along with our finance software development services, we discover your environment to check if everything is ready for successful deployment before the deployment date. If any issues arise, we make a list of recommendations for you to ensure that these issues are solved before the planned date. If you need it, our DevOps will provide you with professional support in the deployment process. Support and maintenance We offer professional technical support, troubleshooting, and maintenance. Using these services, you can integrate new functionality, upgrade software, get ongoing support according to one of the available schedule options, or even hire a dedicated support team that will work solely on your software development for financial services projects. Such a service is the best way to ensure seamless delivery of your banking services. Get professional financial software development services! Send request Explore our case studies Banking Data governance project for a bank Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Banking IT staff augmentation for Raiffeisen Bank’s IT projects Banking POC for Raiffeisen Bank self‑service terminal development Banking Blockchain-based crypto wallet for ICO and crowdsales Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our tech stack for financial software development services Frequently asked questions What software is mainly used in banks? We develop all types of software products used in banks and other financial institutions. Our banking software development services include core systems, mobile apps, web solutions, data warehouses, RPA, and AI technologies implementation. We also provide engineering services for implementing platform-based solutions like Oracle, for instance. How do you ensure that users’ data is secure? We apply the latest security technologies to adhere to the current cybersecurity standards. To check how software complies with regulations, we use penetration testing . Together with our customers, we discuss cybersecurity challenges and requirements before the project starts. Do you use the latest technology? We use the latest tools to create products that can compete with modern fintech solutions. Our finance software development company continuously improves its skills and knowledge by visiting various workshops and conferences devoted to software development for financial services. This allows our engineers to stay aware of the cutting-edge technology trends adopted by modern banks, fintech companies, and other organizations. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman