ETL consulting Talk to our DWH and ETL consultants What we offer ETL consultancy has drastically altered the contemporary business landscape, enabling organizations to leverage data effectively. Today, companies have multiple tools for gathering, processing, storing, and analyzing data about their products, employees, and customers. Qualified ETL migration experts will help you stay competitive by meeting ever-changing consumer preferences and requirements. ETL consultants of DICEUS have rich experience developing and implementing modern ETL solutions for financial companies, banks, retail sectors, manufacturing, healthcare, logistics, and others. Our expertise allows us to implement platforms that provide high-end business data analysis solutions aligned with your strategic goals. ETL consulting Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of ETL service The business world of the early third millennium is highly dynamic, where new technologies that can revolutionize internal workflow and customer service are ushered in almost every week. Data handling know-how is no exception, where ETL reigns supreme, helping brands turn their business data into valuable digital assets. ETL migration consulting services by DICEUS will enable companies to enhance their efficiency and improve their decision-making by yielding the following boons. Data consistency This is mission-critical for companies that use data from disparate sources and have problems bringing all dossiers into one format. ETL systems will address pain points and standardize data sets across all storage facilities. By implementing state-of-the-art ETL solutions, you will obtain advanced capabilities for secure and accurate data aggregation, hoarding, and analysis. Data-driven decisions With the entire scope of historical and current data from multiple sources at their fingertips, managers can perform accurate and meaningful analyses. Our ETL development services will optimize and customize your data mining process, which is the backbone of decision-making. ETL solutions by DICEUS will let you outline the best course of action, shape long-term policies, and respond promptly to issues demanding an instant reaction. Increased revenue How can data increase revenue? ETL solutions will turn your business information into a pivotal asset susceptible to monetization. Opportunities for in-depth analysis provided by ETL systems will become a key to understanding customer behavior, assessing chances of expanding into new markets, creating personalized offerings, and tapping offbeat ways of increasing operational efficiency. Reduced cost Having cooperated with enterprises for over a dozen years, we at DICEUS realize that expenditure curtailing is one of the top concerns for businesses across all industries. That is why we tailor the ETL solutions we build to the customer’s unique needs to enable a holistic view of the organization, update infrastructure, and modernize the data management pipeline, all of which ultimately translate into cost-saving. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our ETL outsourcing services DICEUS specializes in providing ETL as a service. By hiring our vetted ETL migration consultant, you can roadmap a comprehensive digital transformation strategy that includes data management as an essential element. It can be implemented by outsourcing to us the following services. ETL development If you commission this service, you can replace old-school DWH solutions with an innovative self-service model where you can enjoy custom ETL development, modernization of your existing products, and integrating your current systems with BI and reporting software to process big data sets and employ advanced analytics. Such revolutionary changes are possible due to our expertise in Oracle Database, Oracle DI, MS SQL, PostgreSQL, IBM Data Stage, and more. ETL solutions for data analysis With the robust ETL system in place, you can prepare business data and reports much quicker. Our seasoned professionals possess sufficient skills to help you access and retrieve data seamlessly, eliminate errors in reports, analyze multivariate information, generate accurate data-driven forecasts, and perform granular customer segmentation. ETL solutions for risk management We have completed numerous projects in the banking and fintech domains, so we are well-versed in the endemic risks of this sector, including credit problems, non-payment cases, and regulatory effects. With such an experience, we can develop a suitable solution with a custom ETL model to mitigate risks symptomatic of your business and the industry you work in. ETL for marketing Setting up an efficient marketing strategy is one of the most significant challenges for modern enterprises. You can eliminate this headache by harnessing an ETL solution that provides a 360-degree view of your customers. Using it as a collection of insights, you can understand your clients’ behavior, plan marketing campaigns, launch successful cross-selling and upselling programs, and make other data-driven marketing decisions. What impacts your project duration The duration of an ETL service project depends on many factors. The most crucial are the following. Project requirements Anticipated deadlines ETL team composition Chosen platforms and tech stack Type and complexity of an ETL solution What affects your project costs The future ETL service project cost calculation can be performed after we consider such vital summands. Selected technology Project scope and complexity The urgency of project completion Engagement model you prefer (Dedicated Team or Time and Material) The cloud platform you will choose for the ETL solution What we need from your side Reliable ETL migration consulting firms like DICEUS always deliver their projects on time and within the allocated budget. However, no ETL migration firms can cope with tasks if the client doesn’t cooperate closely with them. To ensure you obtain the expected outcome, our ETL migration consultants will appreciate it if you provide them with the following information. The project vision, goals, and roadmap (if it is available) High-level project requirements Existing project-related documentation (software architecture, mockups, etc.) Project deadlines Customer’s availability schedule (usually several hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our tech stack Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Telecommunications Web app development for the telecom company Nema Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Project management Cloud-based project management solution Frequently asked questions What is the ETL service? This acronym stands for Extract, Transform, and Load, a sequence of steps utilized in databases and other storage facilities to make effective decisions. Our ETL services and engagement of target sources result in the development of advanced ETL solutions for businesses in various fields. Where is ETL used? The most frequent use cases of ETL are business intelligence (BI) and reporting, where it can guarantee proper data quality, processing, exchange, and management within an enterprise. We leverage in-depth business analysis of your company to align the ETL solutions we build with your requirements. Why choose us for ETL outsourcing? The seasoned staff of DICEUS has vast experience in providing full-cycle ETL development and consulting services to enterprises in banking, finance, healthcare, insurance, retail, construction, and other industries. Our well-established pipeline is honed to improve your workflow swiftly and efficiently. Similar expertise BI and Reporting Robotics process automation (RPA) Cloud solutions Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman