Insurance data analytics software development services Since 2011, DICEUS has been collaborating with insurance companies, refining our expertise in custom insurance data analytics software development. Our qualified and certified team has a diverse skill set, enabling us to effectively utilize a range of technologies to create exceptional data analytics software for insurance organizations. Discuss project details Book a call Insurance data analytics software relates to the solutions capable of collecting, storing, extraction, and processing relevant information of various kinds obtained from multiple sources. Given the vast amount of such dossiers and records in our digitalized world, the efficient handling of business and personal data can be implemented only via leveraging robust insurance data analytics software as a special kind of insurtech solutions. It will enable players in the domain to draw meaningful insights that can be utilized in optimizing their workflow and providing a higher level of customer satisfaction for their clientele. Benefits of custom insurance data analytics software The implementation of a first-rate analytics solution and its integrations with other elements of an organization’s IT ecosystem usher in weighty boons for upgrading the major workflows of an insurance company. Customer insights and personalization By collecting and properly analyzing demographic, behavioral, and other information about clientele, insurance companies form a 360-degree view of their customers. Having such individual profiles at their fingertips, they can personalize their marketing efforts and suggest individually tailored services, discounts, offers, etc. Enhanced operational efficiency The outcome of data analysis allows insurance companies to streamline and facilitate their shop floor routine, identify and forestall risks, boost decision-making, and increase the productivity of employees. Improved pricing strategy In-depth product profitability analysis, conversion ratio, retention ratio, and other indices are keys to revising an insurance organization’s existing pricing policy and modifying its underperforming elements. Claims processing automation Data analytics software drastically accelerates the entire lifecycle of handling claims (from the notice of loss through damage assessment to payment processing), pinpoints suspicious claims, helps minimize fraud and prevents litigation. insurance data analytics dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Get professional consulting on data analytics software for insurance Send request Use cases of data analytics software by insurance type We develop predictive analytics insurance software that can support different types of insurance businesses. Below are some examples of what indicators can be tracked: Life insurance: Risk scoring, lapse prediction, and policyholder retention analysis. Health insurance: Claims fraud detection, provider performance analytics, patient journey mapping. Property & Casualty (P&C): Catastrophe modeling, claims trend analysis, underwriting automation. Car insurance: Telematics data analysis, driver behavior scoring, and dynamic pricing. DICEUS approach to building data analytics for insurance In numerous successful insurance data analytics projects DICEUS has delivered for insurance companies, we prioritized three mission-critical aspects of such an analytics platform. Raw data As it happens in any business intelligence initiative, big data analytics in insurance begins with accumulating unprocessed and unformatted data. Its analysis can’t be effective unless it is knocked into shape, which makes it eligible for further handling by analytical tools. That is why it should be cleaned, organized, and transformed before insurance and claims analytics software comes into play. Algorithms These are the methods of discovering the best ways of turning raw data into insights insurance companies can employ for performance optimization. Visualization The efficiency of data analytics software for insurance agency or company is essentially conditioned by a straightforward and easy-to-understand representation of data processing results. Static, dynamic, and interactive visual features and tools enable personnel working with the solution to come to grips with complex qualitative and quantitative indices displayed in a comprehensible graphic form. Example dashboards Wealth management dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Customer data dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Reports dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Stock history executive dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom Homerun auto-insights dashboard Pinch and spread for zoom insurtech dashboard benefitpulse Pinch and spread for zoom About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 8 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our partners Insurance data analytics pipeline A data analytics routine is established for each particular case depending on the customer’s needs. However, the typical procedure of setting up an efficient data analytics pipeline for an insurance company covers the following steps. Defining a goal First, you should understand the purpose and basic objectives of insurance data analysis. These are conventionally conditioned by the company’s current requirements, growth vision, and development roadmap. Determining data analytics types to employ in the process Determining data analytics types to employ in the process The type of analytics you will opt for depends on the nature of the data it will be leveraged to process. A more elaborate scrutiny may necessitate utilizing diagnostic, predictive, or prescriptive methods, but descriptive analysis will suffice for a simple overview of data. Outlining a plan for data mining You should have a clear vision of the sources you will obtain data from, the type of information you are going to look for, the assets you will need to accomplish the procedure (workforce, equipment, software, budget, etc.), and the time the process will take. Collecting the data This is when you start to accumulate data according to the devised plan. If you are pressed for time, you can buy the relevant data from agencies working in this niche. Otherwise, employ specialized software that can facilitate the process immensely. Cleaning the data When all the records are assembled and stored in one virtual venue, you should ensure their accuracy, integrity, compatibility, consistency, completeness, understandability, and relevance. You should check it for errors and duplicates and prepare the dossiers for further analysis. Evaluating the data The analysis properly starts with looking for connections between various facts and figures. The best way to do it is to apply mathematical instruments. You should figure out what the data can mean and how your conclusions can benefit the organization. Visualizing the data Making head or tail of the data under scrutiny is much easier when it is presented in the form of colorful charts, graphs, diagrams, etc. Wide employment of visualization tools will help you spot trends and identify patterns that otherwise can be hidden behind the multitude of disparate numbers. Summarizing findings As a rule, it is done via descriptive analysis of the data. It will not only allow you to pinpoint errors and inconsistencies that may have escaped detection earlier but also enable your insurance company to realize what methods and activities work well and what areas require improvement or even total overhauling of approaches. Integration capabilities To automate processes and unlock real-time insights, the best insurance analytics software should be integrated with other systems like policy administration solutions, claims management systems, CRM tools, etc. Here are the key systems to integrate data analytics with: Policy administration. The goal of data analytics integration with policy administration is to get data to analyze customer segments, monitor policy trends, and optimize underwriting rules. Claims management. The purpose of this integration is accessing structured and unstructured claims data to detect anomalies, forecast reserves, and automate approvals. Customer relationship management. The aim of integrating data analytics with a CRM system is combining behavioral data with claims and policy info to create personalized offerings. To conduct integration successfully, our team will prepare an integration plan, containing all necessary details on ETL pipelines, APIs and microservices, data warehouses, and more. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing Our ready-made data analytics solution for insurance Our insurance data analytics solution is a data visualization tool that captures and analyzes data ingested from our ready-made software products for insurance (Mobile App, Chatbot, Web Portal) to track metrics on sales, claims, and customers. It provides information that helps insurers optimize their cross/upselling strategies and learn where most of sales and marketing efforts should be targeted. Vitaminise Data Analytics Pinch and spread for zoom Other ready-made software for insurance businesses AI-Based Underwriting Workbench Group and Individual Insurance Management Platform Policy Administration System Mobile App that supports different types of insurance Customer Web Portal Insurance Data Warehouse AI-Powered Chatbot Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company FAQ What are insurance data analytics software development services? IT vendors offer various services related to creating and implementing data analytics software for insurance agencies. Here belong the development of a standalone custom analytics solution or an embedded module from scratch, customization and integration of third-party analytics software with the existing infrastructure, migration of the analytics product, modernization of a legacy solution, etc. How does insurance data analytics software development work? It starts with the discovery phase when the vendor learns the project requirements, scope, budget, and timeframe. All these factors condition the choice of the underlying software architecture and data processing model (ETL, ELT, or ETLT). Then comes the implementation of the model during the development stage, testing the finished solution, and its deployment for further use. Solid vendors also include support and maintenance services in the deal. What are the benefits of using custom insurance data analytics software development services? By commissioning a bespoke insurance data analytics solution, you will obtain a unique product that will be honed to meet your organization’s requirements and dovetail into your company’s business goals. Leveraging it, you can step up your pipeline efficiency, improve your pricing strategy, obtain meaningful insights into customer behavior, and guarantee maximum customer satisfaction for your clientele. What types of insurance companies can benefit from data analytics solutions? All insurance sectors can benefit—life and unit-linked products, health, property & casualty (P&C), travel, and car. Each type can use data analytics for risk assessment, claims optimization, customer insights, fraud detection, and pricing strategies. How do you ensure data quality and accuracy in analytics? We organize rigorous data cleaning, validation, and normalization processes during ingestion. Additionally, automated quality checks and manual audits help support high data accuracy throughout the pipeline. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman