Custom WMS development services Modern warehouses are huge distribution centers with multiple warehouse operations to manage and control daily. Given the scale and complexity of such business processes, it is impossible to attain their exclusive operational efficiency without the involvement of such bread-and-butter software solutions as enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), accounting software, and other business systems. Send request A robust warehouse management system (WMS) is a smart warehousing technology that is the centerpiece of this digital ecosystem, helping employees handle the entire scope of warehouse processes, starting from the time products are delivered there up to the moment when they move out in their outbound shipments. Custom WMS software leveraged by multiple warehouses allows them to attain a high degree of warehouse automation and essentially streamline and facilitate all pipeline business operations. Our custom warehouse management systems development services The warehouse management solutions we craft enable organizations to manage warehouse operations throughout the end-to-end cycle of their shop floor routine in this field. Fleet management software development A custom fleet management solution tailored specifically to the needs, goals, values, and other underlying attributes of your business is a real game-changer in the times of templated e-commerce and supply management systems. A solution like that will ultimately boost your long-term RoI, fleet productivity, user data and BI security, scalability, and demand tendencies. With proper expertise and enough experience like we possess at DICEUS, we can build something truly unique, created from scratch individually for your brand. Logistics data analytics and reporting In terms of fleet management system development at DICEUS, we prioritize in-depth work with data, focusing on thorough data analytics and reporting when it comes to logistics. Well-optimized, calibrated logistics result in the ultimate long-term success of the supply chain you maintain. We will help you outline the best new routes based on the statistical and historical data (as well as other logistics data) to save more essential costs and bear less unnecessary expenses through specialized integrations. APIs and software integration A fitting API properly integrated with the supply chain or fleet management system enables extensive optimization, performance, productivity, and connectivity opportunities. We have the expertise to build and integrate solutions that ultimately centralize and interconnect all your supply chain features and tools, both technical and collaborative. Sky’s the limit with the custom fleet management software development approach provided by seasoned specialists with extensive portfolios highlighting outstanding creations across industries. IoT solutions for fleet management To add an innovative touch to how you usually handle things and expand the efficiency of your supply chain and fleet performance even further, we create IoT solutions for fleet management. Using metrics-generating beacons and sensor devices firmly connected to the real-time data processing centralized network does wonders in terms of managing widespread fleet points. On top of that, the Internet of Things presents one of the trendiest toolsets, which will also make a great push for your marketing efforts and brand recognition. WMS mobile apps Traditionally, warehouse managers spent the lion’s share of their office hours at their desks. We can create a bespoke WMS product that will allow them to get down to warehouse workers and direct their operations on the floor with the help of mobile devices. Besides, our high-performance and elegant applications will become a pivotal tool for rank-and-file employees who will leverage them in multiple workflows (inventory levels tracking, supply chain operations, warehouse space utilization, barcode scanning, you name it) from any location. WMS implementation Having a finished WMS product delivered to their doorstep, many companies still struggle with its enterprise-wide implementation. Vetted experts of DICEUS will be there to put the newly created system into operation root and branch. They will give a helping hand in defining the implementation strategy, cleaning and curating your data, testing the solution’s functioning in real-world conditions, training personnel who will utilize it, launching the system, monitoring and fine-tuning its operation, and ensuring real-time visibility across all implementation stages. img 1-1 Pinch and spread for zoom img 2-2 Pinch and spread for zoom Want to get a project roadmap and recommended tech stack? Book a call Benefits of our warehouse management software services The contemporary IT outsourcing market is full of vendors offering their services to the global entrepreneur audience. What makes DICEUS stand out among the rest as the right developer choice for your WMS project? WMS expertise for retail and logistics DICEUS offers warehouse management software that allows customers to adopt emtechs (emerging technologies) capable of boosting businesses in retail and logistics. Our systems help retailers reorganize their warehouse operations to satisfy buyers with the fastest possible deliveries. Logistics vendors, in their turn, benefit a lot from automated cargo movements appearing more cost-effective and errorless due to our WMS solutions. Our systems significantly simplify arranging frictionless workflows for both retailers and logistics providers due to our deep expertise that builds a bridge between software and the real-world movement of goods. Custom development for your business Despite many ready-to-use WMS systems available in the market, we are far from offering one-fits-all solutions to our customers. We believe that any templated software is a palliative incapable of meeting the needs of each and every customer out of the box. Only an individual approach to every particular business can deliver the results worth investing time and money. Once warehouse management includes numerous individual nuances and complexities, only custom development can provide users with fully-functional WMS systems leaving no warehouse operations uncovered. Project outcomes guarantee Each interruption in a supply chain’s functioning brings not just financial losses but reputational risks to a business. Implementing a WMS system makes sense only if the software runs smoothly to provide an obvious commercial value due to continuous errorless operation. How to convince customers that the ordered WMS solution will work as they expect? We prefer sharing the responsibility for project outcomes with our customers. The guarantee that imposes financial obligations on the software vendor is worth a thousand words. Such a strategy leaves no chance for either negligence or incompetence from our side. Flexible cooperation options DICEUS never limits cooperation with customers to software development only. We always seek a win-win strategy that can appear mutually profitable for both parties. Any custom WMS application may require a preliminary audit of the existing software (ERP and the like). We are here to provide such a service. Need to migrate the already deployed WMS system from on-premise to cloud? We can help even if the system is delivered by a third-party vendor. Looking for an augmented staff for continuous post-deployment support of your WMS system? Our dedicated teams are always available. Must-have features for custom warehouse management systems Depending on the specifics of your organization, we can fill the custom WMS we are going to build for you with any functionalities your pipeline routine requires. The typical roster of characteristics ensuring the system’s efficient operations includes: Inventory control. Inventory management systems are the core of WMS solutions, allowing companies to keep track of the organization’s inventory in real-time and monitor item receiving, packing, labeling, storing, replenishment, shipping, and the like. Equipped with barcode scanning capabilities, such tools provide inventory accuracy, alert personnel dealing with dangerous or temperature-sensitive goods, forestall stockouts, and watch out for overstocking. Location management. This feature excels at identifying and classifying space within the warehouse and creates its digital map where storage locations, aisles, columns, shelves, and special zones (high security, chilled, frozen, etc.) are outlined. To meet customer demand, we can equip this module with multiple warehouse integration capabilities. Order management. It enables warehouses to handle orders from multiple internal and external partners, provide inventory status and dispatch updates for them, manage orders in bulk, keep track of order details, observe order statuses, boost order picking and packing routine, automate task assignment depending on location and priority, and more. Supply chain management. Smooth movement of supplies is the blood circulation system of the complex warehouse organism. This functionality of WMS allows employees to implement complete traceability of goods across numerous locations, streamline delivery coordination, and facilitate carrier management (including carrier selection, delivery scheduling, and performance monitoring). Shipping management. Such transportation management systems help organizations strategically organize and manage dock space allocation, optimize goods loading and unloading, streamline load verification, improve route planning, minimize fuel consumption, reduce carbon footprint, and cut down on labor costs. Document management. This capability allows organizations to avoid excessive paperwork in their shop floor operations, switch over to digital document flow, automate the generation, approval, and distribution of documentation, and usher in digital contract management, where digital signature functionality reigns supreme. Returns management. Using this module, warehouse personnel can generate any relevant document, log the returned product, register reasons for the return, inspect the item to determine whether it will be restocked or scrapped, and provide a refund or exchange option to the client. In this way, increased customer satisfaction is guaranteed. Financial management. Handling all financial documentation is a breeze with this functionality. Especially useful is its ability to automatically generate invoices. Besides, it can calculate inventory costs and costs of sold products by tracking purchases, sales, adjustments, and other inventory movements. Reporting and analytics. When reinforced with artificial intelligence, this feature allows employees to obtain KPI reports, thanks to which they can monitor and analyze operational metrics. Such data becomes valuable insights, enabling informed decision-making and predictive analytics related to inventory planning and demand forecasting. Integrations . A WMS system can bring maximum value only when synchronized with ERP, CRM, and other components of the organization’s IT infrastructure. By ensuring its synergy with the entire digital environment via an open API, you provide the system’s compatibility with multiple resources and platforms, avoid data silos, and maintain business consistency and continuity. Our WMS development process DICEUS’s qualified and certified professionals have more than a dozen years of experience in delivering high-end enterprise solutions for the retail and logistics industries, which has allowed them to devise an efficient algorithm for tackling such projects. Discovery phase We always begin with thorough research of our customers’ existing warehouse management system: what should be improved, what can be changed, and what customers expect from a WMS solution. A preliminary software audit of the current ERP is an option. A software development specification (SDS) appears due to the discovery phase. This is a collaborative approach that aims to mitigate any misunderstanding between our team and a customer. The first line of code appears only after the entire architecture becomes clear to everyone. UI/UX design Designers start prototyping the future WMS system on the basis of a previously created SDS. It does not mean, however, that any conceptual changes can be made over the course: we are always open to fresh ideas that can come to a customer as a sudden epiphany. What they steer by is the no-frills user-friendly UI and intuitive UX dominated by drag-and-drop functionalities and clear navigation menus that pave the way to a smooth learning curve and effortless employment of the solution by non-tech warehouse staff. Development Developers are writing code in parallel with designers so as not to lose valuable time. They craft the system’s architecture, build its server-side elements, and create its client-side components, prioritizing seamless performance and adherence to technical and functional project requirements. Iterations go after iterations according to a certain Agile method selected for the project. Customers stay always informed about the languages and frameworks we prefer applying to their WMS systems. The development process as a whole remains fully transparent for customers at any stage. Testing and QA We are very pragmatic about testing: it is better to overdo tests before possible WMS malfunction brings penalties and reputational risks (remember that we bear financial obligations against outcomes guarantee) to our company. Both automated testing methodologies inherent in DevOps and manual tests inevitable in checking UX are thoroughly documented. We appreciate proactive testing when developers create tests to ensure the quality of every line of code they write. Each subsequent iteration begins only after each previous one is finalized without failed tests. Technical support There are two types of cooperation with customers. One type ends when a finished software product is delivered and deployed. Another one goes until the entire life cycle of the delivered software gets exhausted. We always prefer the second variant to provide our customers with professional technical support. Warehouse operations are dynamic and sensitive to ever-changing market conditions. Therefore, updates and upgrades of a WMS system seem to be needed from time to time. We never leave our customers tet-a-tet with possible technical issues: who knows a WMS system better than its creators? About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Get professional consulting on your project! Send request What impacts your project duration There is no standard timeframe when it comes to the custom development of a WMS system: each project is unique. Nonetheless, some common factors have a substantial impact on the duration of your project. Project requirements Expected time-to-market Team composition Chosen platforms and technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs The cost of every WMS development project is as individual as its duration. The following factors determine the final cost of your WMS solution: Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side To achieve the best possible results in terms of both project duration and cost efficiency, we always do our best to make an SDS appear as soon as possible. The following info (if available) can significantly facilitate our efforts: Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation,n if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our custom warehouse management systems development case studies Logistics A fleet management application for soldier trucking Logistics A blockchain solution for Vlantana Retail SAP ERP audit for Palmers Textil Automotive Enterprise resource planning tool for a transport company Retail Pentaho and microstrategy audit for Palmers Textil Frequently asked questions What are the most popular WMS solutions globally? One of the burning trends in logistics these days is 3PL (third-party logistics) when inventory, warehousing, and fulfillment are outsourced to some third-party vendors. They usually use the following 3 types of WMS systems: integrated ERP, supply-chain modules, and standalone WMS. Some of the leading ready-to-use systems are NetSuite WMS, Fishbowl Inventory, Softeon, and HighJump. Even though they are represented as out-of-the-box WMS solutions, it is necessary to select the business specialization inherent in each system: wholesale, manufacturing, 3PL, e-commerce, and the like. What are the essential features of WMS systems? The functionalities of custom WMS systems may significantly vary according to the domains where they have to work. However, any application that claims to be a fully functional WMS solution can hardly do without the following features: Inventory tracking, pick-and-pack processing, task management, shipment scheduling, order fulfillment, data collection, accounting, reports, and notifications. What are the benefits of warehouse management apps? Enhanced productivity due to optimized warehouse operations is widely considered as the main advantage of WMS system implementation. Automation of inventory leads to faster and more precise movements of goods along the entire supply chain. The improved deliveries result in stronger customer loyalty along with a higher retention rate. Transport drivers benefit from better cross-docking and faster loading. And finally, your employees become happier with improved workflows and demonstrate better performance along with lower staff turnover. Similar industry E-commerce apps Retail apps POS software Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman