Data warehouse development for the healthcare industry The robust advent of digital technologies in the healthcare sector has caused a huge surge in the volume of patient data and medical records organizations should handle. Individual data marts and siloed on-premises data storage facilities prove inadequate for retrieving, processing, and analyzing such vast data sets. DICEUS will revolutionize your healthcare-related data pipeline by crafting a bespoke healthcare data warehouse equipped with cutting-edge business intelligence and data analytics tools. Speak with our DWH expert What we offer Data integration Kept in one virtual venue, aggregated data in compatible formats is the vital value of a health care data warehouse (DWH). To guarantee this asset, we ingest all kinds of medical data (unstructured, semi-structured, and structured), their transformation (summarization, conversion, etc.), load and retrieval, high-end data management, and information querying via SQL. Data storage When all the data is collected and integrated, it should be securely stored. We use the healthcare data warehouse schema to obtain protected health information and metadata storage for historical and current subject-oriented medical data. We also offer you a choice of data storage environments (on-premises, cloud, or hybrid). DWH development DICEUS specialists, as seasoned healthcare data warehouse vendors, create professional DWH solutions and focus on two essential components. The first is the back-end side, which embraces high-quality software, efficient infrastructure, and security protocols. The second is the front end with an easy-to-operate dashboard and a gamut of data management and analytics tools. DWH modernization The healthcare data warehouse model we deliver is never carved in stone. As new technologies and approaches to data storage and management push in and novel medical discoveries are made, we update the DWH to provide the best patient service and meet doctors’ needs halfway. Special attention is paid to automating as many workflow operations as possible. Security and compliance Personal and clinical information security is paramount in medical data warehousing. To address this requirement, we introduce granular column- and row-level security monitoring, multi-factor authentication, healthcare data encryption, vulnerability detection, and threat assessment. We also control compliance with HIPAA, FDA, HITECH, and other healthcare regulations. Self-service BI development Even the most complete and transparent collection of medical data is of little use unless clinicians can draw some insights from it. The DWHs we develop enable clear visualization of the data hoarded there, allow for the creation of user-friendly dashboards to work with patients’ demographics, and provide automated reporting opportunities to keep a hospital’s records in apple-pie order. Examples of healthcare data Pinch and spread for zoom Healthcare data warehouse Pinch and spread for zoom Get professional consultating on your project! Send request Benefits of a data warehouse in healthcare Healthcare providers are often trendsetters among organizations across various industries that employ an enterprise data warehouse. DICEUS supports its state-of-the-art data storage and management aspirations by delivering top-notch DWH solutions that can significantly enhance patient services. Now, most healthcare organizations switch to digital information storage as part of electronic health records (EHR). We can take your medical treatment services to a new level by uniting all your siloed on-premises data systems into a cloud-based clinical data warehouse with enormous business intelligence (BI) opportunities and advanced analytics. Our approach to data warehousing in healthcare allows for fast solution delivery according to your specific needs. Augmented patient experience This is an overarching goal of implementing a data warehouse in healthcare. By combining EHR information, diagnostic and clinical data, follow-ups, and long-term outcomes, hospitals obtain a 360-view of the patient and make their medical journey seamless, thus achieving a higher standard of care. Personalized services Like customers in any other field, healthcare service consumers like to feel unique and special. When they create a data warehouse, clinics make a decisive step in this direction. The high-end analytics tools DWH possesses provide deeper insights into each use case and open broad perspectives for personalizing healthcare. Improved clinical decisions Reliance on siloed databases full of unstructured and unclassified information does no good for strategic planning or the immediate choices doctors make regarding treatment. Transparent and integrated data kept in unified storage and a range of first-class tools for processing it that a data warehouse provides spells a spike in the quality of clinical decisions. Efficient reporting While monitoring patient conditions, personnel performance, or pharmacy consumption in real life, you can present these data to stakeholders, pinpoint problem zones, and step up clinical research. But DWH opportunities extend even further than analyzing what has happened. With its advanced tools, you can also predict what will occur next. Essential qualities to consider in the healthcare DWH Ample data storage One of the key features of a DWH is its ability to serve as a centralized data repository for healthcare organizations. Clinical data warehouse architecture should be based on the enterprise data model, where the relationships between different types of records are clearly defined. Utilizing an independent data mart model with the records classified according to the department they belong to makes it easier to find and analyze the necessary data stored within the DWH. Seamless data integration Data gathered in the DWH is derived from numerous external and internal sources, such as public databases, electronic health records (EHR), electronic medical records (EMR), lab databases, pharmacy management systems, enterprise resource planning (ERP) solutions, insurance claims management systems, and others. The more channels for extracting data are involved, the more complete a vision of patients and workflows the DWH’s owner has. Data transformation and cleansing To make the information liable for advanced analytics, healthcare data warehouses should ensure adequate data quality. Achieving it presupposes various cleaning and decluttering procedures (removing errors, eliminating duplicates, getting rid of inconsistencies, checking data accuracy, etc.) aimed at guaranteeing that the centralized repository stores only complete, understandable, compatible, up-to-date, and relevant data that is properly indexed and categorized. Data querying and reporting Assembling huge volumes of patient, medical, and administrative data in one place makes sense only if you can retrieve, analyze, and present data analysis results in an easy-to-comprehend format. A top-notch DWH is equipped with diverse mechanisms, such as BI tools, SQL and query builders, online analytical processing (OLAP), data mining tools, decision support software, a reporting module, and more, to streamline and facilitate research and statistical analysis. Data security and compliance Since healthcare data warehouses store highly sensitive data, clinics and hospitals should guarantee its protection both at rest and in transit from the data source to the data storage level. By implementing stringent role-based access control, intrusion detection systems, firewalls, encryption, and regular security audits, a DWH will not only safeguard the inviolability of its content but also ensure compliance with numerous legal standards relevant to the industry. Performance and reliability These are among the top data warehouse challenges since the software should operate efficiently and be failure-free. When information kept in the healthcare DWH is quick to identify and retrieve, easy to comprehend on user-friendly dashboards, and provided with an automated backup, medical institutions can radically enhance patient outcomes, boost clinical research, improve clinical trials, and offer exceptional-quality patient care. Our healthcare DWH development process Building a data warehouse for any use case is a serious endeavor that can be tackled only by high-profile software experts. Our vetted mavens have top-notch skills and sufficient experience in data warehouse design for hospitals across the globe, which has allowed us to develop a comprehensive and efficient strategy for accomplishing such projects. It includes the following steps. Healthcare DWH architecture devising It all starts with analyzing business requirements for the solution we will build. The portfolio of healthcare data model examples we have applied in our previous projects serves as a basis for choosing the architectural pattern of the solution. Depending on the volume of data it will contain, we opt for a one-tier, two-tier, or three-tier organizational structure. Front-end design The key to efficient data management within a data warehouse is a user-friendly interface providing seamless access to various data processing and analytics tools. While creating these elements of the healthcare DWH, our designers pay special attention to developing a foolproof mechanism for sharing the stored data and generated reports with all stakeholders in the sphere. Back-end development Even if the front end has excellent usability and the tools are easy to operate, it won’t take you far unless it has a first-rate server side to power it. The specialists of DICEUS meticulously build this data warehouse component, consisting of a metadata unit and a collection of APIs. They are called to integrate disparate data sources that the hospital relies on in its workflow. Testing and QA Since efficient data warehouse operation in the healthcare industry is often a life-or-death issue, our solution is never launched until thoroughly tested. We run all necessary checks (functional, compliance, security, etc.) to expose any bugs or malfunctions the DWH may have and eliminate them as soon as they are detected. Let’s discuss your requirements! Send request Beneficial integrations for a DWH in healthcare Developers should leverage reliable and secure APIs to implement important healthcare data warehouse integrations, ensuring maximum operational efficiency, improving clinical outcomes, and ensuring ultimate patient satisfaction. Data lakes. Before all relevant data is moved to a healthcare data warehouse, it is hoarded in data lakes. Typically, these long-term storage facilities contain unstructured (audio/video files, medical images, real-time IoT metrics, etc.) and structured (EHRs, claim-related data) information that the DWH can query on demand. Machine learning. Versatile information data lakes store can be used not only for further integration and processing by DWH tools. It can become input data for training machine learning algorithms. By integrating disruptive ML-driven mechanisms, healthcare data warehouse owners can increase the solution’s predictive powers, enable the delivery of personalized medical services, and boost proactive planning. BI software. Business intelligence tools are second-to-none descriptive analytics instruments. Their integration with healthcare data warehouses provides valuable insights that pave the way for operational and strategic decision-making. The efficiency of such tools grows manifold if they present analysis outcomes as easy-to-comprehend visuals on interactive dashboards and in immersive reports. Who gains from developing a healthcare DWH? Making a healthcare data warehouse an integral element of the professional IT ecosystem would benefit many stakeholders across various verticals. Clinicians By having access to complete patient data (medical images, clinical charts, medication prescriptions, lab test results, etc.), doctors, nurses, and other clinical staff can improve diagnosis, facilitate treatment plan creation, and track a patient’s recovery progress. Hospital administrators Since a healthcare DWH also contains workforce-related information, the facility’s executives utilize it to manage the healthcare provider’s functioning, track the productivity of its workforce, optimize resources, enhance supply replenishment, and more. Data analysts Automated ETL pipelines, which data warehouses rely on, enable healthcare information technology specialists to streamline and facilitate data analysis and reporting, which ultimately leads to more informed clinical and administrative decisions across departments. Finance experts Financial teams employ the data a healthcare DWH contains (patient admission and discharge indices, hospital bed occupancy, expected disease cases, etc.) to plan budgets, monitor financial performance in real time, improve billing accuracy, forecast expenses, and more. Insurers Integrating a healthcare DWH with an insurance company’s ecosystem elevates health insurance workflows to a new level. It maximizes the efficiency and speed of claims data processing, underwriting, premium rate calculation, reimbursement schedule establishment, and the like, thus keeping healthcare providers and insurers on the same page. Local and national authorities Data warehousing solutions store large amounts of demographic and epidemiological data, allowing officials to expose health trends across population strata, prevent disease outbreaks, allocate resources more efficiently, and improve community health outcomes on a large scale. Researchers Clinical research is impossible without relevant, structured, and accessible data. A healthcare DWH is just what the doctor ordered for conducting explorations and experiments, enhancing the accuracy of findings, reducing research time, supporting evidence-based advancements, and facilitating collaboration between research team members. Regulatory and compliance experts When all patient data is kept in one consolidated storage, monitoring its security and compliance is much easier. Specialists in this field can efficiently control its adherence to industry regulations and conduct comprehensive security audits hand over fist. What impacts your project duration How long will it take to create a DWH for your healthcare organization? We can give you a more or less accurate estimation after we know the following information: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Selected platforms and tech stack The complexity of building the DWH What affects your project costs The sum you will have to allocate to obtain a fully functional healthcare data warehouse depends on five factors: Chosen technology Project scope and complexity The urgency of project completion Engagement model The cloud platform for your DWH What we need from your side Our team is qualified enough to complete any data warehouse project within the stipulated budget and timeframe. Yet, you can speed up and promote this process if you cooperate closely with the project crew. It will be a win-win outcome for both of us if you provide the following: The project vision, goals, and roadmap (if it exists) High-level project requirements Available project-related documentation (software architecture, mockups, etc.) Project deadlines Your accessibility schedule (several hours a week) Why choose DICEUS for healthcare DWH development? Healthcare data warehouse development is a sophisticated process that can be entrusted only to qualified and certified outsourcers. What makes DICEUS your number one choice for an IT company to accomplish such projects? Profound niche expertise. During our 14+ years of presence in the IT outsourcing market, we have placed a special emphasis on healthcare solutions. Numerous successful projects in this field and collaboration with high-profile medical organizations enriched our software engineers with an in-depth understanding of the industry workflows and peculiar challenges to address. Highly competent experts on the roster. Our international workforce includes over 250 skilled professionals well-versed in all aspects of software development. We can quickly assemble a qualified project team that will provide full-cycle SDLC of the best-in-class healthcare data warehouse on time and on budget. Compliant products. The healthcare domain operates under stringent legal standards concerning data security. Being aware of it, we prioritize regulatory compliance in building healthcare solutions, making sure they adhere to HIPAA, HITECH, PIPEDA, FDA, and other norms relevant to the industry across different countries. Flexible cooperation. We practice a client-centered approach, aspiring to meet our customers halfway through all aspects of the partnership. The project team adapts to your interaction style and communication schedule, offers NDA, and stays open to any customer suggestions and feedback that can improve the final product. Our tech stack Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Frequently asked questions What is a data warehouse in EHR? As a backbone of the electronic health record system, a data warehouse accumulates information from medical dossiers, lab tests, medication prescriptions, and even insurance claims. Within a DWH, the data are unified, structured, visualized, and prepared for further analysis, which can be implemented with the help of special tools the data warehouse is equipped with. How does a clinical data warehouse work? First, data from internal and external sources is gathered, aggregated, and transformed through an ETL (extract, transform, load) or ELT (extract, load, transform) process. Then, it is placed into centralized storage (conventionally a cloud-based one), where BI, reporting, and visualization tools can access, retrieve, and analyze it. What is the difference between a data warehouse and a clinical repository? Both act as data storage facilities. However, a clinical repository only collects and hoards raw data. A healthcare data warehouse (DWH) is a more advanced form of an information depot. DWH stores data, can draw it from multiple sources, and transforms and structures it. Moreover, its high-end tools enable in-depth data analytics. Similar services Data warehousing consulting Data warehouse services Cloud data warehouse Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman