Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · AI · 10 min. read · 2173 reads · 24 Oct 2024 22 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence for data visualization: How to use AI in 2025 Accurate customer and business data analysis is the non-negotiable foundation of business intelligence on which the success of any modern enterprise rests. It provides key decision-makers with valuable insights that allow them to perform strategic planning in multiple aspects of a company’s pipeline. However, to analyze data properly and gain insights, both managers and rank-and-file personnel should be able to read into it, interpret data stories correctly, and identify patterns. This task is essentially streamlined by leveraging various data visualization techniques. This article will explore the potential of AI models for data visualization, pinpoint the benefits of utilizing AI data visualization tools, explain what types of artificial intelligence excel in the task of creating graphical representations of complex datasets, dwell on the AI-driven data visualizations use cases, and expose the implementation challenges of AI-powered tools honed to create visualizations. What is AI for data visualization? Interactive visualizations of raw data aimed at obtaining actionable insights have been around for quite a time. Business users rely intensely on line charts, column graphs, scatter plots, network graphs, heat maps, pie diagrams, funnel charts, and other visual representation methods to showcase dependencies and relations between data points, identify trends, and usher in data-driven decision-making. Yet today, the exponential growth of the number of data sources and the volume of real-time and historical data make traditional data visualization software based on statistical models inadequate for addressing challenges posed by Big Data. The analysis and representation of massive datasets organizations operate call for more powerful mechanisms. AI tools fueled by neural networks and large language models can quickly sift through vast datasets, discover patterns in the twinkling of an eye, and visually manifest the results in an easy-to-understand form on interactive dashboards. What makes artificial intelligence a second-to-none instrument used to visualize data? Showcasing the benefits of AI-driven data visualization By harnessing the power of AI for data visualization, organizations enjoy the following boons. Benefits of AI-powered data visualization Pinch and spread for zoom Mild learning curve. Intuitive interface and clear navigation make most AI visualization tools foolproof in application even for non-technical users. They don’t require advanced technical expertise for handling as they usually rely on drag-and-drop capabilities for adding data, have configurable charts, and allow for simple data management and arrangement procedures. Smooth data source integration. Sophisticated AI mechanisms enable seamless integration of multiple data sources to streamline data collection and boost data processing workflows. Strong security. Software developers pay special attention to the utmost security of data AI algorithms utilized for training and analysis. Data encryption, both at rest and in transit, tokenization, loss prevention, anonymization, and access control are the best security practices that are applied in such systems. Automated data processing options. AI automates various pre-processing routines ( data engineering , cleaning, augmentation, correction, and the like) to improve visualization outcomes. Besides, artificial intelligence can reveal insights by summarizing diverse datasets that contain not only textual but also video, audio, and image data . Enhanced data analysis. Reports generated by AI solutions present conclusions related to each data story, which elevates data analytics efforts to a new level. Improved decision-making. AI visualization tools quickly turn complex data into meaningful insights that are easier to comprehend for the human brain than texts or numbers. As a result, analysts adopt fast and accurate data-driven decisions that are highly instrumental in propelling business forward. Real-time analytics capabilities. AI software can process data streams that are fed into it 24/7, displaying results updated every time new information comes in. Customization options. Personnel can choose chart types based on their preferences, analysis goals, and the nature of data meant for processing and representation. User interface themes and layouts can also be tailored to personalize visualizations to the maximum. Boosted collaboration. All visualizations an employee obtains can be easily shared with colleagues and managers, streamlining user interactions between staff members and promoting joint effort across project teams. Increased efficiency and productivity. AI algorithms work lightning-fast, letting employees receive visualized data analysis results in a split second and enabling them to solve more tasks in less time. Augmented creativity. The variety of data visualization options offered by AI allows personnel to discover new insights and unexpected patterns they might have missed otherwise. What are the tasks where AI-powered data visualization tools bring the most value? Use cases of AI for data visualization DICEUS’s experience in delivering AI solutions lets us pinpoint major shop floor activities where data visualization tools are most efficient. Use cases of AI for data visualization Pinch and spread for zoom Data handling pipeline Before datasets are visualized, they must undergo a set of pre-processing operations. AI mechanisms streamline and facilitate those, excelling at data mining (finding information based on specific criteria), transformation (converting data from one format to another), assessment (measuring the quality of datasets), comparison (pinpointing similarities and differences in data), and more. Smart data discovery AI is good at revealing concealed relationships and patterns within analyzed datasets, outlining ways to further explore and visualize information. Moreover, advanced reasoning capabilities provided by AI and ML tools allow for forecasting and modeling of trends and developments as credible hypotheses. Automated chart recommendation High-end AI solutions with embedded analytics and business intelligence capabilities can suggest the most revealing chart type for analysis result representation that can effectively manifest the story behind it and turn data in them into actionable insights. Dashboard creation Traditional visualization tools can also do that, but AI reshapes the process dramatically. Users can formulate their queries and questions in human language (like “compare personnel productivity across departments” or “show the dynamics of conversion rate within the previous six months”) and immediately get a visual graph or even a complete dashboard showcasing the response. Anomaly detection AI mechanisms are trained to recognize normal developments and flag deviations. Armed with such capabilities, AI tools visualize data in a way that enables easy discovery of irregularities and outliers in data patterns. Data synthesis Analysts can better interpret trends and patterns in visualized data by exploring potential scenarios or simulating what-if analysis. Such procedures require special data, and AI algorithms can generate it aplenty. Predictive data analysis An enterprise’s business success crucially depends on key decision-makers’ ability to forecast developments in the niche. AI-fueled predictive analytics tools visualize these forecasts, allowing analysts to improve risk assessment, anticipate customer behavior, prognosticate revenue influxes, and more. To maximize the value of these benefits, you should know what types of artificial intelligence can be leveraged for data visualization. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us AI types for data visualization As vetted professionals in AI consulting , we recommend using the following data visualization software development technologies. types of AI for data visualization Pinch and spread for zoom Machine learning While employed for the automatic selection of graphs, charts, and other visual representation means, machine learning algorithms are highly instrumental in facilitating the speed and quality of the procedure. Besides, the ability of ML-fueled solutions to get more sophisticated on the go allows AI experts to train predictive models on the existing data, which renders more reliable projections and more accurate visualizations since ML learns to adapt to unexpected data and input variations. Large language models The main asset of LLMs is the huge language datasets used for their training. When properly developed, trained, and employed, large language models enhance data interpretation, provide intuitive user interactions, guarantee the solution’s scalability and efficiency, and usher in a high degree of personalization and customization via understanding the context of queries and user preferences. Natural language processing One can’t do without NLP-powered data visualization tools in performing sentiment analysis, extracting data from videos and images, summarizing texts, topic modeling, etc. In fact, NLP reigns supreme in any task where software should understand human language, for instance, in responding to user queries or when explaining obtained results and delivering insights to personnel working with it. Generative AI Whenever there is a need for new data, generative AI steps in. It generates tons of synthetic data to produce more complete visualizations, train ML and LLM models, detect anomalies, and augment existing datasets. The effective use of these technologies is possible only when users and developers manage to overcome major obstacles in the way of their implementation and exploitation. Implementation of AI-based data visualization: Challenges to address When making AI-driven data visualization software a part of their IT ecosystem, companies must be ready to cope with the following issues. challenges of implementing AI in data visualization Pinch and spread for zoom High initial investment. Any novel technology is not a chump-change purchase. You have to allocate a significant budget for building an efficient tool, integrating it into your digital environment, and training personnel to utilize it. Need for infrastructure upgrade. Legacy on-premise ecosystems many organizations rely on in their shop floor routine don’t play well with disruptive innovations. You will have to overhaul your entire IT infrastructure, hydrate the cloud, and get a robust storage facility to allow AI to display its potential. Striking a functional balance of the AI-driven system. There are numerous tradeoffs you will have to consider while onboarding artificial intelligence. You should balance automation and human intervention, responsiveness and stability, dynamic dataset updating and reliability of the system’s operation. Visual insights interpretability. Being yet a budding technology, AI can sometimes produce results with an unknown rationale behind them or even “hallucinate”, generating outcomes that baffle comprehension. Such negative developments can be minimized by providing the high quality of input data fed into the system. Real-time scalability. Software users expect data to be ingested as soon as AI algorithms detect it. However, processing new datasets requires time, plus some more time should pass before it is added to visualizations. The rapid increase in the quantity of such data may freeze the system or even cause its failure. AI’s ethical use. Data privacy and security, the absence of algorithm bias, transparency of the system’s functioning, and distribution of accountability between stakeholders should become a priority in creating and employing AI-driven solutions, including those that deal with data visualization. To avoid these pitfalls and bottlenecks, you should opt for the right data visualization software. Of course, you can leverage boxed solutions like Microsoft Power BI that appeal to many users. Yet, off-the-shelf products can’t be tailored to meet your enterprise’s unique requirements and preferences. By hiring seasoned mavens of DICEUS, you can obtain a first-rate bespoke data visualization solution with personalized AI features that will revolutionize all data handling tasks across your organization. Contact us for a consultation or order data visualization software from our high-profile experts. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing Key Takeaways Visualization is a second-to-none instrument for representing data result analysis and providing an enterprise’s decision-makers with valuable insights. When bolstered with the power of artificial intelligence, data visualization turns into a foolproof and secure analytics tool that excels at automated data processing, smart data discovery, anomaly detection, predictive data analysis, and more. AI-based data visualization solutions leveraging ML, LLMs, NLP, and generative AI are easily customizable and allow for interactive dashboard creation, which boosts users’ efficiency, productivity, and creativity. To make the most of AI-driven data visualization software, you should address various implementation challenges and hire a competent IT vendor to develop a tailored solution. Frequently asked questions How can AI improve insights in data visualization? AI-fueled data visualization tools allow for interactive dashboard creation, accurate anomaly detection, predictive data analysis, smart data discovery, automated chart type recommendation, high-quality data pre-processing, and more. As a result, the insights they produce can be used as major guidelines by key decision-makers. What types of AI algorithms are commonly used for data visualization? AI solutions rely both on supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms, as well as on neural networks for data visualization tasks. Such algorithms are employed for powering large language models, machine learning, generative AI, natural language processing, and other AI-related technologies that streamline and facilitate data visualization. What challenges might organizations face when implementing AI-based data visualization? When onboarding AI-powered data visualization tools, companies should be ready to deal with such issues as the lack of user expertise, high implementation costs, subpar data quality, reliability of AI-generated outcomes, transparency of AI algorithms, balancing automation and human participation, real-time scalability, and ethical usage of AI. In which industries can AI-driven data visualization be particularly beneficial? Such tools are highly instrumental in any vertical where meticulous data analysis is mission-critical. In our experience, AI-based data visualization software is a game-changer in fintech, banking, insurance, retail, healthcare, construction, and logistics. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents What is AI for data visualization? Showcasing the benefits of AI-driven data visualization Use cases of AI for data visualization AI types for data visualization Implementation of AI-based data visualization: Challenges to address Key Takeaways Frequently asked questions Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles Fintech 10 min. read · 23 Aug 2024 17 Feb 2025 Artificial intelligence in finance: Top advantages and use cases Healthcare 11 min. read · 22 Oct 2024 17 Feb 2025 Artificial intelligence in healthcare: Top advantages and use cases Fintech 13 min. read · 28 Oct 2024 29 Dec 2025 Artificial intelligence in fintech: Top advantages and use cases AI 9 min. read · 25 Oct 2024 22 Nov 2024 Data analytics and artificial intelligence: Essentials AI 19 min. read · 27 Jun 2024 21 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence in banking: Role and impact for the industry AI 5 min. read · 07 Feb 2024 25 Nov 2024 Insurance analytics and artificial intelligence All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman