Generative artificial intelligence consulting services While being among the most wanted contemporary scientific achievements, generative AI technologies used in innovative solutions can’t be embraced without reliance on qualified assistance and advanced AI tools. As a leading generative AI consulting company, DICEUS will lend you a helping hand with generative AI adoption by offering professional advice concerning integrating generative AI into your organization’s pipeline and leveraging generative AI solutions to drive business growth. Talk to AI expert Discuss your project needs What is generative AI, and why is it so popular today? Modern AI systems are becoming increasingly sophisticated, evolving into a range of artificial intelligence models and technologies, including natural language processing, computer vision, machine learning, deep learning, the Internet of Things, big data engineering, and others. A prominent place in this list is occupied by generative AI applications and systems. Generative AI refers to software that excels at new content generation after an out-and-out input data analysis. How does generative AI work? Having Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), transformers, and variational auto-encoders at their core, generative AI models emulate human creativity by sifting through tons of audio, video, image, or text data, identifying patterns in them, and producing similar content. This capability of the technology stimulates companies across multiple industries to leverage generative AI solutions, enabling businesses to reap numerous boons as an outcome. generative AI use cases Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of generative AI technology for businesses The assets of making generative AI software an integral element of an organization’s digital landscape include: Content generation automation The main mission of generative AI is to produce high-quality content of various types quickly and efficiently. As a result, companies streamline processes of generating marketing materials, blog articles, and other content items, across which the consistent brand style and voice are maintained. Workflow automation Many employees’ shop floor responsibilities are recurrent and rather mechanical. Generative AI can automate routine tasks and free the workforce to pursue more creative and complex activities. Process optimization By entrusting multiple tasks to machines, companies optimize processes in their internal pipeline, minimize paperwork, and enhance operational efficiency across the organization. Flexibility Since you train your ML algorithms on your company’s unique data, you can create generative AI products customized to meet the organization’s specific requirements and honed to achieve particular business goals. Time and cost efficiency With AI swiftly and competently performing its assignments, an enterprise increases its productivity and reduces OPEX simultaneously. This allows companies to gain a competitive advantage over their less tech-savvy rivals. Data-driven decision making AI performs high-quality data analysis, delivering actionable insights to managers and rank-and-file employees. As a result, they identify trends, patterns, anomalies, and bottlenecks and make strategic data-driven decisions that improve the company’s efficiency in many pipeline aspects. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our generative AI consulting services DICEUS provides a wide range of consulting generative AI services that will maximize the value of this technology for your business. Use case identification Our experts analyze potential use cases of generative AI as a part of your organization’s ecosystem, conduct feasibility research, and pinpoint the business advantages the company can enjoy after embracing it. Tech stack selection We go through the list of various generative AI models, technologies, and tools (Llama, Claude, Mistral, ChatGPT, Gemini, etc.) to opt for those that can bring maximum value to your enterprise, satisfy its requirements, and fit into its current IT infrastructure with its architecture. Data engineering Our data specialists employ advanced tools and techniques to analyze, clean, and pre-process your company data, preparing it for use as input for AI model training. Their in-depth machine learning expertise allows them to create custom models geared for predictive analysis and other specific tasks. Custom LLM development We select and optimize pre-trained Large Language Models to make them dovetail into your organization’s workflows. Also, we fine-tune them by leveraging your proprietary data to ensure accurate domain-specific outcomes. Generative AI integration Generative AI solutions will function effectively only if they play well with the existing elements of your organization’s digital environment. We will give competent advice on implementing smooth integration of such products that will maximize their capabilities and minimize disruptions to your business pipeline. Security and compliance We make sure your company is aware of the compliance standards, regulating data handling in your industry (HIPAA, GDPR, CCPA, and others) and will adhere to them while developing and implementing generative AI software. AI ethics consulting Our AI policy analysts see to it that the AI solutions you harness satisfy ethical requirements in this sector. They monitor AI accountability, transparency, security, fairness, and the absence of training data bias, paving the way for humane, inclusive, secure, and eco-friendly usage of artificial intelligence. Training consultancy We coach your in-house team to enhance their theoretical knowledge and practical skills necessary for handling generative AI software. We offer general-purpose and project-specific training courses to prepare your workforce for embracing generative AI. No-code AI consulting The ubiquity of AI necessitates its proficient leveraging by the widest user audience possible. We teach enterprises’ non-tech personnel to handle simple generative AI projects, enabling organizations to dispense with a software developer workforce. Support and maintenance If you need help with existing generative AI systems, our vetted experts will be there to optimize their performance, provide updates, address issues, tweak algorithms, and ensure their smooth operation at peak efficiency. Can’t find a service you are looking for? Explore all services Want to discuss your project? Contact us Steps of generative AI consulting Our qualified generative AI consultants follow an efficient 4-step roadmap of generative AI consultancy service delivery. Step 1. Business concept validation We start by gauging the feasibility of implementing generative AI solutions, their alignment with your company’s business objectives, and their possible interplay with the elements of the existing infrastructure. To do that, we develop prototypes of generative models that essentially represent the key business idea, gather the stakeholders’ feedback, and determine whether it dovetails into the use cases our customer envisages for the product. Step 2. Handling the technical side of AI projects Next, we advise on the tech stack of the future AI solution and select generative techniques that will maximize the product’s value. Our experts determine the technical limitations of existing systems, eliminate technical blockers, and come up with a roster of tools to be used in SDLC. Step 3. Proof of technology Now, the workability of customized solutions is put to test. We take thought for the seamless integration of the new product into the current digital environment, ensure its compatibility across the ecosystem, and eliminate technical uncertainty as to the smooth functioning of generative AI software. Step 4. Devising a clear project plan The major deliverable of the entire process is a comprehensive generative AI project roadmap. In it, we pinpoint the resources necessary for generative AI development, determine the timeline with the key milestones, anticipate the cost of implementing a generative AI project, and envision the need for ongoing support. Why choose DICEUS To obtain qualified advice in any field, you should hire competent experts with a deep understanding of the area of knowledge you need help in. Why is DICEUS a perfect choice for such a partner? Long presence in the IT outsourcing market. Our 14+-year experience in the high-tech realm has allowed us to accumulate extensive expertise and numerous practical skills that our specialists apply in projects they deal with. Proficiency across diverse industries. We have successfully completed projects for banking, fintech, healthcare, retail, insurance, and construction organizations, enabling us to discover the nuances of pivotal workflows in those verticals. Individualized approach to each client. We dig deep into our customers’ current state, business requirements, and industry trends to offer tailored solutions to their problems and meet partners halfway concerning cooperation conditions and schedules. Prioritizing ethical AI considerations. Creating responsible AI systems is the chief concern of our engineers. That is why, while consulting on generative AI strategy development, they make ethics a centerpiece, ensuring the AI model’s transparency, accountability, security, and fairness. Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements What customers say about DICEUS Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What are generative AI consulting services? The scope of qualified generative AI consulting services provided by high-profile experts in the field includes AI user case identification, tech stack assessment and selection, generative AI integration, LLM development, data engineering, compliance and security consulting, no-code and AI ethics consulting, training consultancy, and support and maintenance. How can generative AI consulting elevate enterprise success? By hiring competent generative AI consultants, you can step up content generation, implement workflow automation and pipeline process optimization, reduce operational expenditures, enhance data-driven decision-making, improve and personalize customer experience, and sharpen your competitive edge. Which use cases can be addressed with generative AI? Generative AI software finds multiple applications across various industry verticals, being leveraged for such use cases as code generation, product design and development, sales and marketing personalization, workflow automation, graphic and video design, fraud detection and risk management, customer support, training data generation, and more. What is the step-by-step approach to generative AI consulting? First, the consultants validate the business concept behind the implementation of a generative AI solution. Next, they opt for the optimal tech stack for developing the product. Then, they advise on checking the feasibility of the solution’s functioning and its compatibility with the customer’s digital environment. Finally, a straightforward project plan is devised, where the required resources, time, and budget are indicated. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman