TMS software development Get started What we offer Custom transportation management software Why might you need custom transportation management software? Quite often, SaaS TMS platforms do not offer the functionality and integrations your business needs dictate. A tailored approach is your cure in this case. Custom-built solutions will bring numerous benefits to the table. Simple and understandable UI/UX, complete control over the project’s functionality, and seamless integration in the current environment. As a result, you can enjoy lower transportation costs, streamlined operations, improved customer service, and many more. Cloud-based solutions for transportation Cloud-based TMS software is becoming a growing trend today. This happens for several good reasons. Cloud-based solutions are broadly available and easily utilized; they minimize upfront costs and facilitate the support process; they improve cooperation between carriers and suppliers and eventually expedite the return on investments. While a major obstacle for many organizations is insufficient technical resources, we, as qualified software developers, can successfully remove this concern. System integration services Regardless of your business complexity or the state of your existing supply chain, we can fulfill the most complicated network integrations. However, the trick is not only to implement the solution but also to ensure its sustainability. We guarantee a seamless integration that does not affect the ongoing process. Noteworthy, we apply customized approaches and tools according to your business goals. System optimization services Our team boasts solid experience in custom software development, cloud solutions, design, testing, and more. Based on our expertise, we provide audit and strategic IT consulting that aims at software ecosystem optimization. We make sure that your solutions deliver at their best so that you can maximize your gains. As an outcome, you will enjoy streamlined operations, minimized costs, and steady business growth. transportation management Pinch and spread for zoom Transportation management software Pinch and spread for zoom Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Benefits of our transportation management software services Dedicated teams Our whole team includes more than 250 experienced and certified analysts, designers, developers, QA engineers, and more. Your project will be handled by a dedicated group of experts, ensuring that the working process runs smoothly and that you receive the business value you expect. Our expertise spans various industries, while our quality-driven delivery model focuses on superior results for your business. Flexible cooperation What is a customer primarily looking for when cooperating with a TMS company? According to our experience, it’s a smooth workflow, efficient communication and management, and consistent results. We exercise several cooperation models to meet customer needs perfectly in each specific case. These models include the dedicated team model, the time and material model, and the fixed price model. The optimal choice depends on your goals, resources, and the estimated project time frame. Wide technology stack Big projects usually require large-scale solutions and a high-level tech stack. Furthermore, the technology stack utilized for project implementation should have a good scalability potential. For instance, Java and .NET feature proper scalability for enterprise-scale systems. We offer a great technology stack to complete whatever complexity project. What’s more, we provide IT consulting, staff augmentation, and custom software development to optimize the selection of technology stack. High-quality guarantee Our entire working process is built with transparency, project goal, and client satisfaction in mind. All software engineering procedures are performed according to the QA standards and deliver an abundant range of advantages. Meticulously organized planning and testing strategies ensure the right management of software quality. Manual and automated testing guarantees that the software will provide an expected business value. QA documentation keeps all records and reports. Our transportation management software development process Business analysis We start our development process by discovering your business. Our experts assess your existing challenges and identify which technologies and solutions will help address those challenges most efficiently. Based on the conducted analysis, we develop a project strategy, a roadmap, and software specifications. This is also the stage when we usually present the approximate project timing. Development We have a well-established transportation management system software development lifecycle that complies with all required standards. The efficient process enables us to ensure that you will get supreme software solutions created within the settled time and budget. As our client, you will enjoy a seamless project flow and conducive communication, since all jobs are professionally managed by certified project managers. Testing stage Transportation management solution building requires stringent quality assurance through meticulous testing since TMS software functionality should be non-compromised. We discuss and set up the testing strategy at the early stages of project implementation. We utilize the whole scope of testing tools and approaches, including manual and automated testing, regular code reviews, and cross-reviews. Deployment Although the deployment phase is fulfilled on the client side, we make sure that the process will go off smoothly. Our experts will inspect your environment for any potential issues. If we discover any gaps, we will provide thorough recommendations on how to fix the troubles before the actual deployment takes place. All our expertise and efforts will be focused on ensuring impeccable results. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request What impacts your project duration The average TMS project implementation takes from 6 to 9 months. The overall time frame is mainly dictated by your requirements and the project complexity. The factors influencing the project terms include the following: Requirements Expected time-to-market Team composition Chosen platforms and technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs Adequate cost estimation is critical for clients to plan their budget. We assess the TMS project cost based on several things. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side We request certain information from the client’s side. The more detailed input we receive, the better outcome we can attain. Project goal, vision, and roadmap Project requirements Project-specific documentation Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Logistics A fleet management application for soldier trucking Logistics A blockchain solution for Vlantana Retail SAP ERP audit for Palmers Textil Automotive Enterprise resource planning tool for a transport company Retail Pentaho and microstrategy audit for Palmers Textil Frequently asked questions Do you have experience building software for transportation management? In order to develop and successfully integrate modern transportation management software, engineers need profound knowledge and strong expertise in available technologies. Our experts boast significant experience in building cloud-based, web, and mobile solutions for transportation management to provide solid business values and superior quality outcomes. How long will it take to build a transportation management solution? TMS software development can generally take about 6 to 9 months. However, the duration can vary according to project complexity and the client’s requirements. Aiming to deliver an optimal solution in each specific case, we ask our clients to provide as detailed information related to the project as possible. Therefore, we can harness the most appropriate technology, establish a respective team of experts, and develop an efficient project strategy and timeline. What cooperation models do you offer to your customers? We offer three engagement schemes. The Dedicated Team Model implies that you get a skilled team of developers who work in the same way as your in-house staff. A vendor receives a monthly fee. The Time and Material Model presupposes the division of the project into several iterations, each resulting in a completed product. The budget can undergo certain shifts at the end. The Fixed Price Model usually works best with medium to small projects with clear requirements and budgets. The conditions are set in advance, and the costs are fixed. Similar industry Supply chain management Fleet management Warehouse management Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman