CEM web app for Ethos integrated solutions Services provided Software architecture Software audit Web app development UI/UX design Expertise used Cloud solutions Industry Software product Project overview Customer experience management (CEM) defines the essential points of regular and eCommerce business success, including traffic stimulation, lead generation, user engagement, and, ultimately, sales volumes and total level of income. That’s why this particular aspect requires in-depth analysis and regular managing effort. Our client, Ethos Integrated Solutions, came up with the unique CEM model that needed to be converted into an interactive web interface. Client Ethos Integrated Solutions Team 3 members Country United Arab Emirates Duration 3 months Client information Ethos Integrated Solutions is a provider of business-boosting solutions based in the United Arab Emirates. The company focuses on advanced initiatives for business specifics measurement, analysis, and overall improvement. Ethos is an established international market player that has received a number of reputable awards and been included in the Top 100 Companies rating “Dubai OneHundred SME”. Business challenge The client had an established CEM model for thorough customer experience measurement, benchmarking, and assessment, with further business improvement based on the defined best practices. The global goal of the project was to implement this model in the form of a web-based software solution that would help organizations boost their CEM efforts and acquire CEM certification based on the employed model. Ultimately, we had to digitize the client’s existing business-enhancing initiative. Technical challenges The task on the agenda was to full-cycle develop an accessible web application with no excessive functionality. The main technical specifics were that the solutions should offer separate user roles with the respective views and functionalities, provide individual user accounts, have multiple localizations, and top-notch interface execution. The software had to be written from scratch and boast hi-end performance according to the latest market standards while being a niche solution for substantial business purposes. Solution delivered The implemented application is a polished, top-level business software solution that allows companies to individually optimize the key points of their in-house customer experience management based on the preliminary and accredited self-assessment, employ CEM benchmarking, and get CEMM certification online without going too far. Ethos CEM app is an ultimate tool for businesses looking to expand their specialization measures and reach new levels of the market status. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features CEM self-assessment Companies can complete a profiled questionnaire and submit their self-assessment for review to get accredited. CEMM self-certification Self-certification is based on a more detailed questionnaire and further CEMM certification assessment online. CEM benchmarking Individual company assessments can be benchmarked based on the comparison with the other industry-specific results. Online/offline payments Organizations can pay for services both online via credit card and offline with checks, wire exchange, or invoice. Value to our client Self-sufficient CEM The fact that organizations don’t need any extra efforts and third-parties to acquire CEMM certification greatly speeds things up. Online functionality The web-based nature of the software solution allows for sturdy, stable performance with a high level of user data security. User roles hierarchy The app provides individual permissions for organizations, partners, certification bodies, partner users, and certified assessors. Multi-lingual interface The application supports multiple languages for the ultimate international accessibility, with English and Arabic by default. Our tech stack C# .NET Framework 4.5 ASP.NET MVC 5 SQL Server 2014 DDD and SOLID design patterns Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman