Computer vision software development services Get started What we offer IT consulting DICEUS provides consultations on projects of any complexity from start to finish. Our computer vision consultants will study your goals in detail to advise you on achieving an optimal development lifecycle. The underlying services are system integration, software upgrades, and compliance with individual and regulatory requirements. Thorough consultation helps clarify specifics and set the sturdiest foundation for your project kick-off. Custom development We create unique products and services that help you outrun your competitors and set the stage for market competition. For this, our computer vision solutions incorporate AI and ML technologies to deliver the best image recognition, analysis, and processing capabilities to ultimately simplify and streamline your workflow. In addition, we may employ various other advanced technologies based on your particular needs. Testing and QA Today, quality control is more important than ever. Unfortunately, the process has traditionally been costly, requiring many hours of intensive labor. Using innovative methods, DICEUS monitors computer vision solutions at every stage of development, which allows us to quickly identify and correct defects before they become a problem for the end user. We help you achieve more via careful end product polishing. Maintenance DICEUS provides reliable integration of off-the-shelf software products based on advanced technologies. But even the best system requires competent and timely maintenance. Our services guarantee that your software will always be 100% functional, including active support and maintenance at the pre-development stages, during ongoing development, and in post-release deployment conditions. img 1-1-1.png Pinch and spread for zoom img 2-1-1 Pinch and spread for zoom Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Benefits of our computer vision development services AI and ML expertise We provide computer vision as a service to develop products for high-performance systems. This is why we employ in-depth experience and advanced expertise to implement CV projects, optimize existing solutions, and create custom algorithms based on mathematical models. We also elaborate artificial intelligence methods such as deep and machine learning for various purposes. Flexible cooperation Creating a first-class software product is only possible if the client and the developer communicate closely and transparently. Our development team employs the most efficient collaboration models that allow flexibly adapting all the underlying development processes to your specific needs and requirements. We are here to grant the most convenient collaboration conditions possible. Outcome guarantee DICEUS creates sustainable and reliable solutions that boost productivity, improve overall efficiency, solve complex technical problems, grow and develop enterprises and organizations across industries and market niches. Moreover, we guarantee a perfectly optimal result or exceed your initial expectations without hidden costs or extra stuff you don’t need in practice. Regular reporting The priority of our company is customer satisfaction. Therefore, the result of each development stage must be thoroughly validated. At any time, you may need information about the project’s current status. We provide detailed reports weekly, quarterly, or every day as needed. Constant reporting, preliminary planning, and active client interaction take our performance a long way. Our custom software development process Business analysis Our specialized team offers high-quality computer vision services that start with a comprehensive assessment of your market potential. Then, we define the target niche, functional and non-functional requirements, ways, and trajectory of movement of the future software product to a potential user, working closely with the client. UI/UX design We love and know how to create unique interfaces. Our company deals with both individual solutions and parts of larger projects that may require the full-on process of development, optimization, or migration of software. DICEUS will quickly create a custom responsive design that best suits your business goals and engages your target user audience. Development We have savvy developers that will create an individual software product that can work flawlessly under high loads and position you out of competition. DICEUS computer vision solutions bring real streamlined long-term business benefits, meeting the needs of both existing and potential users. With a flexible workflow, we deliver highly efficient results in efficient terms. Deployment Finished software products can be quickly deployed in a suitable environment to benefit any user or user group. You can run condition checks and apply configurations to speed up the deployment process. Thanks to the efficient automation of operations, we do it as soon as possible, considering your wishes and deploying the finished software in all the right ways. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request What impacts your project duration Artificial intelligence that powers your CV-based solution does wonder in terms of expense management and more. However, the specific deadline for the completion of your software development project depends on several important aspects. Project requirements Time-to-market Team composition Chosen technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs The price of computer vision solutions can vary greatly. The end budget of your project is dictated by: Scope of work and project’s complexity The number of upgrades and customizations Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side To determine the main parameters for the implementation of the project, we will need certain input info from you, including: Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our tech stack Explore our case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case Frequently asked questions What are the advantages of computer vision software? In high tech, computer vision software helps stand out and progress in line with the times. Moreover, CV is capable of automating tasks without human intervention, which brings a number of advantages: automated and optimized repetitive tasks; polished-out products and services delivered by trained CV systems that don’t make human mistakes; lower costs because the CV will leave no room for defective products and services, and companies will not have to spend money on fixing processes. Can you help us choose a tech stack for development? We sure can. We have been doing this for years, so we know everything about the development cycle! Our experience and expertise allow us to recommend tools that guarantee the successful creation of a software product in the shortest possible terms with the most optimal money and time investments. You will have at your disposal a cutting-edge technology stack wielded by some of the industry’s brightest minds. What are the most popular computer vision platforms? The most popular tools for creating efficient CV applications today are: OpenCV – a real-time computer vision library; SimpleCV – an open-source framework for machine vision; MATLAB – a programming platform for engineers and scientists; TensorFlow – a software library for machine learning; Viso Suite – a no-code computer vision platform for businesses; CUDA – a parallel computing and programming solution; Keras – a Python-based deep learning API. Similar industry Supply chain management Warehouse management POS software Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman