Insurance web portal development services DICEUS has over 15 years of experience creating bespoke portals for insurers, agencies, and their customers. A tailor-made portal can be enriched with various features offering online services and real-time data for users. Discuss requirements Estimate project DICEUS is an insurance portal development company that offers custom development, modernization, and implementation services to insurance businesses. Moreover, we provide ready-made software products for insurers, brokers, captives, TPAs, and MGAs. Our solutions include both back-office systems and customer-facing digital products. As a vetted player in insurance portal software development, DICEUS has accumulated profound theoretical knowledge and extensive hands-on experience in this domain. Our high-profile specialists employ a wide array of cutting-edge tools to deliver a comprehensive online insurance platform that combines an insurance supplier portal and a customer-facing solution to meet the requirements of companies and satisfy the most fastidious consumer needs. Contemporary insurance portals are virtual venues where insurance agents, brokers, and clients come into contact to offer and obtain an entire roster of insurance policies (life, health, property, etc.) and related services. Insurance portal implementation enables organizations in the industry to streamline and facilitate their workflow, increase productivity, and provide a high level of customer satisfaction to their clientele. DICEUS approach to custom insurance portal development Our custom insurance portal software meets the top-quality standards in the field because we prioritize the following principles in the process of web portal development. In-depth customer experience (CX) research This is the mission-critical preliminary stage of our SDLC. During it, we discover consumer preferences, interests, and pain points to provide the best-in-class design and appropriate software architecture that will guarantee a seamless experience for insurance service consumers. Tailor-made features to meet user expectations We meticulously follow all the guidelines set by each customer regarding the unique list of features and capabilities the future insurtech product will have in accordance with the scope of services the organization offers. Fully customizable solution Our team fine-tunes insurance portal software to let it play well with the digital ecosystem of the customer and align with the company’s business requirements, needs, and vision for future growth. The final solution can also be customized according to your branding, tone of voice, and other corporate aspects. Focus on omnichannel CX Modern insurance providers’ customers leverage various channels and devices to buy a policy, submit a claim, or obtain compensation. Realizing this, we aim to provide an integrated experience that will ensure the same quality of services, no matter whether the client reaches out to them via a mobile gadget, laptop, or desktop. Let’s discuss your project needs. Send request Basic features of the insurance customer portal The vital capabilities of an insurance portal for customers include, but are not limited to, the following features: Quote generation. Potential customers get instant insurance quotes based on the details they provide, such as the type of insurance, coverage amount, and personal data. Policy purchase. This section offers people a variety of policies, among which they can choose the one that suits their situation. Policy recommendations. Based on customer data and preferences, insurance portals suggest additional coverage options or policies that could benefit the customer, such as additional coverage for other types of insurance. Policy export to PDF. Customers can export policy documents to PDF for offline storage, emailing, or printing directly from the portal. Premium payment reminders. Automated notifications for upcoming premium payments or policy renewals sent in SMS, email, or push notifications. Claim submission. Here, customers can file a claim in a no-sweat and uncomplicated way once an insurance case occurs. Claims evidence upload. Policyholders can submit photos or videos of damages directly via the portal as part of the claim process. The portal could also integrate AI-driven tools for preliminary damage assessment. Claim status. Policyholders can monitor the progress of their claims, including whether they are under review, approved, or awaiting additional information. Document management. Portal users will find here all the information related to their policy. Naturally, they should be able to share, download, and print such documents. Access to self-services. This capability allows people to apply for some routine procedure or service without consulting an agent or support team in such use cases as damage estimation, scheduling an appointment with a doctor, etc. Access to FAQ section. A vast majority of insurance-related questions are boilerplate ones, the answers to which people can find in this module. Basic features of the insurance agent portal Garden-variety broker portal software should contain the following modules: Underwriting and risk management. Here, agents analyze insurance applications, evaluate related risks, and assess the coverage these risks will entail. Policy selling, cross-selling, and upselling. This item allows insurance suppliers to sell potential clients standard policies, offer them to upgrade their existing contracts with additional coverage and suggest acquiring other types of policies. Document management. Insurance personnel can create, store, retrieve, and handle all necessary documents (policy templates, claims, invoices, and more). Claim management. The entire procedure of claim processing, from verifying their eligibility to generating transaction reports and payment allocation, is performed in this section. Analytics and reporting. The functionality enables the collection, categorization, and utilization of transaction data as well as reserves tracking and calculations, BI analytics, regulatory reporting, payment settlements, etc. Marketing campaigns. This feature allows agents to review customer needs, monitor crucial marketing indices, and track sales, with the subsequent use of such data as insights for creating engaging campaigns aimed at driving policy sales. Our ready-made portal solutions for insurance Usually, custom insurance web portal development projects take a long time and consume significant resources until they go live. These projects require an in-depth discovery of needs, business processes, and alignment of requirements between an insurance organization and the vendor. Unlike bespoke solutions, DICEUS’s ready-made portals are built on a deep understanding of key workflows and the latest technology innovations, which means all the necessary modules are already included. Customer Web Portal DICEUS’s Customer Web Portal is a self‑service digital hub that provides policyholders with a personalized dashboard to view and manage their policies, receive instant quotes, file and monitor claims, handle payments, and update personal information securely online. It’s built to enhance customer engagement, reduce operational workload, and offer 24/7 access to key insurance services through intuitive features and seamless integrations with existing systems. Broker Web Portal DICEUS’s Broker Web Portal is a comprehensive digital platform that allows insurance brokers to efficiently manage quotes, policies, invoicing, claims, customer data, and analytics all in one centralized hub. It is designed to automate workflows and enhance customer experience with real-time updates and self-service access. Additionally, the portal can be quickly deployed and integrated with existing systems, helping brokers remain competitive in the digital insurance market. DICEUS software products Pinch and spread for zoom Need other software solutions for insurance? Discover our ready-made software products for insurance businesses! Learn more Our custom development services for insurance Web portal development Customer portal development Underwriting software development Claims management development Policy administration development Insurance digital channels Discuss functionalities you need Book a call Want to discuss your project? Contact us Benefits of custom insurance portals Custom insurance agency portal development is a good fit for you if need a tailored solution to improve operational efficiency and CX, and integrate with existing systems while addressing unique business requirements. Better CX. Provide policyholders with an intuitive, personalized interface that lets them easily access their policy details, file claims, pay premiums, and request support, thereby enhancing customer loyalty and engagement. Increased efficiency. Automation of manual processes, like claims submission and policy renewals, reduces operational costs and accelerates service delivery, leading to greater efficiency for insurance businesses. Enhanced data security. Bespoke portals ensure the highest levels of security for sensitive data, compliance with regulations, and data protected against breaches. Data-driven analytics and reporting. Custom solutions allow insurers to gather detailed data about user behavior, policy trends, and operational performance, helping make informed business decisions and optimize product and service offerings. Scalability. Custom portals can be designed to grow with the business, offering agility to add new functionalities or accommodate increasing users, products, or geographies without significant disruptions. Seamless Integration. Custom-built web portals can be integrated with existing systems, including legacy platforms, CRM systems, and payment gateways, ensuring smooth data flow and operational efficiency. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Why choose DICEUS? Experience 20 projects accomplished for leading insurance companies like Willis, BriteCore, UNIQA, BenefitNet Expertise Over 250 competent and certified developers with a broad range of hard and soft skills Technology stack Extensive technology roster that covers multiple programming languages, versatile front-end and back-end tools, and a number of state-of-the-art innovations (AI, ML, blockchain, and more) SDLC A well-established SDLC with clearly defined roles and responsibilities of participants Cooperation The customer-centric approach where we meet our partners halfway regarding the interaction schedule and communication channels our clients prefer Our development process The SDLC we adhere to is based on the Agile methodology. In it, the portal development routine is broken into several dynamic steps (known as sprints), each consisting of planning, implementation, and evaluation. On completion of a sprint, we look back at what has been done, assess the outcome, and pinpoint areas for improvement to modify the next steps. Such a flexible technique ushers in the utmost adaptability of the development process, vibrant communication between team members, improved quality of IT products, and risk minimization, which all come together to guarantee a high level of customer satisfaction. Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance Technology stack Our achievements Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company FAQ What are insurance portal software development services? These are the services a software vendor provides for insurance companies to develop a comprehensive online platform they can leverage in their workflow. Typically, such services cover the creation of a custom portal solution with organization-facing and customer-facing dashboards, its integration with the company’s existing IT ecosystem, the migration of the current legacy platform to a modern environment accompanied by its fundamental modernization, and more. What is the importance of having a customized insurance portal? Boxed insurtech products available in the IT market are made to fit a garden variety of a company. However, each player in the niche has its own organization size and structure, roster of services, target audience, business goals, etc. By opting for a bespoke portal, you are sure to obtain a unique solution that will completely satisfy your requirements and dovetail into the business strategy your firm relies on in its activity. How do you ensure the security of sensitive data within the insurance portal? The main goal of data protection measures is to limit access to the information on the insurance portal, allowing only authorized personnel to handle it. This aim can be achieved via perpetual tracking of compliance with data privacy regulations, implementing robust data encryption (both at rest and in transit), instituting access control, organizing a reliable data backup and recovery policy, and establishing a stringent monitoring system. Also, insurance portal owners should conduct regular vulnerability scans and penetration tests of their products to minimize data burglary and leakage threats. Can the insurance portal be accessed on mobile devices? Nowadays, smartphones are the major device type used by people to work, study, shop, and have fun online. The same is true about getting insurance services. That is why competent IT vendors prioritize the mobile experience of clients and design insurance portals with an eye to their seamless performance irrespective of the channel and gadget customers leverage to access them. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman