ERP software development services DICEUS provides ERP software development services for various industries, including retail. Send requirements Enterprise resource planning software is the backbone of a modern organization’s IT infrastructure. As the company grows and its business operations become more intricate, off-the-shelf ERP systems employed by many firms display inadequacy in addressing the multiple challenges they face. Our custom ERP development services will cover all your current and future business needs and revolutionize your workflows, boosting operational efficiency and providing a unified view of the shop floor activities you pursue. Our ERP software development services ERP for any industry Our company offers the professional development of exceptionally adaptable, high-quality, organization-wide ERP software services and systems fit for any industry that can benefit from process automation and data analysis with subsequent comprehensive reports. Based on your industry and needs, we develop a tailored enterprise resource planning solution to drastically improve your decision-making and streamline other major internal processes. Custom development With over ten years of experience, our team can offer you custom development of a suitable ERP solution. We start with a discovery phase and, based on requirements, proceed with developing functionality for your needs. Custom solutions help align all internal parts of the company and avoid data migration problems or improper integration with existing systems that can sometimes happen with ready-made software. ERP implementation Our ERP implementation process includes the vital planning stage with necessary information gathering, design, and configurations, followed by the actual development. Next comes the deployment stage, during which our team completes the data migration and configuration, finishing with thorough testing of the system and all its functionality to prevent or timely react to any emerging issues. System integration Custom ERP software helps combine all your internal business processes into one system and increase the effectiveness of your project management. Our ERP developers focus on integrating your company’s every essential function into one system, which helps upgrade communication across all departments. We assist in the system’s assimilation process to ensure its proper adaptation. ERP application development In the highly dynamic current business environment, flexibility and speed have become key competitive differentiators. We can provide the utmost portability of your critical ERP software by building robust ERP apps that can be accessed from any mobile device, thus enabling top brass and rank-and-file employees to attend to all pipeline operations, whether in the office or out at the production site. Custom ERP dashboards From the custom dashboards we craft, you can derive key data insights that dovetail with your unique needs and boost your decision-making efforts with relevant and automatically updated information. We envisage the broad scalability of such dashboards, making them adaptable to your evolving business and technical requirements and responsive to the industry best practices and market fluctuations. ERP migration services Very often, fast technological development renders legacy systems inadequate for addressing oncoming challenges. Our vetted specialists perform a comprehensive ERP migration that involves functionalities, settings, and enterprise data migration that accompanies switching to another ERP platform, moving the existing ERP system from an on-premises infrastructure to the cloud, or upgrading existing systems to newer versions. ERP software development Pinch and spread for zoom ERP system development Pinch and spread for zoom Let’s discuss your requirements! Send request Must-have features for ERP software ERP requirements engineering that lies at the core of custom ERP software development presupposes determining an ERP modules list for your future solution tailored to your organization’s specific needs. Conventionally, this roster includes the following features. Finance and accounting This is the centerpiece of all boxed and custom ERP systems. It is responsible for the company’s accounting and financial management workflows by handling standard records like balance sheets or general ledgers, generating financial reports, tackling invoicing and expense reporting, and more. We can expand the scope of finance-related functions on demand by including revenue management and profitability analysis. Inventory management With this module in place, you will be able to keep track of products ready for sale across warehouses at multiple locations. As a result, you make sure you never run out of goods but maintain their quantity at an adequate level, avoiding extra expenditures on storing items longer than necessary. This tool also streamlines business processes related to inventory tracking turnover, replenishment order planning, surplus inventory management, etc. Supply chain management It allows employees to track the movement of supplies from providers to manufacturers, then to distributors, and down to retailers/consumers. They utilize this module not only to monitor each step of the chain but also to deal with goods returned for replacement or refund. Besides, it helps personnel discover which suppliers furnish what merchandise and enables them to select those companies cooperation with which proves the most beneficial. Manufacturing If your enterprise is engaged in producing goods, this is a feature you can’t do without. It is employed for planning all elements of production (like raw materials, machinery capacity, and workforce required for it), comparing output against expected results, updating the current status of items during the production cycle, calculating the average time needed to manufacture one product, and providing a real-time picture of the shop floor at any given moment. Procurement This module is indispensable both for manufacturing and sales businesses. Thanks to it, they ensure an uninterrupted influx of materials they use for producing goods or ready-made items for sale. Organizations leverage it to maintain contact with suppliers and vendors, automatically send out quote requests and purchase orders, and ship products to retailers or consumers. Order management Handling end-to-end order fulfillment from receipt to delivery is a breeze with this module. It directs the received orders to the warehouse or retail outlet, helps track their status throughout the entire delivery route, and makes sure it is not lost along the way and is delivered on time, which is mission-critical for ultimate customer experience and client satisfaction. Customer relationship management These data management solutions typically come as standalone tools but can also be a part of ERP. CRMs contain all client records as well as the company’s interaction history with them (calls and emails with time and subject, support queries, purchasing reports, etc.), guaranteeing customer data integrity and availability. Such information is highly instrumental in customer segmentation, personalization of marketing campaigns, mapping cross-selling and upselling strategies, and other client-facing workflows. Human resources management It is a CRM but geared for managing employee data. It serves as a centralized data hub containing the entire scope of workforce-related information as well as storing job descriptions, performance reviews, staff attendance statistics, and various KPIs. The module conducts working time tracking (including overtime hours, paid time off, sick days, etc.), deducts taxes, automatically distributes paychecks, tackles expense reimbursements, and more. Project management This feature is oriented toward service-based businesses. The ERP project planning module is honed to help project managers in delivering projects from A to Z, assisting them in the workforce and budget allocation, tracking project status, approving timesheets and expenses, billing automation, and generally ensuring seamless interaction between project team members, even if they belong to different departments. Marketing automation Thanks to this module, commercial organizations can plan and administer marketing campaigns across multiple channels and touchpoints (email, messenger apps, social media, SMS, etc.). It enables not only sending automated targeted messages but also generating detailed reports concerning the efficiency of the campaign as a whole and separate measures within it. Based on these reports, marketers can fine-tune their strategy to step up lead generation, improve conversion rates, and foster customer loyalty in the long run. Business intelligence (BI) Companies store and operate tons of business data. Advanced BI tools allow them to derive maximum value from these records by extracting information from various sources, thoroughly analyzing it, presenting the results in easy-to-read formats on customized dashboards, and creating reports that serve as a collection of actionable insights for operational and strategic decision-making. E-commerce B2B or B2C businesses focused on selling online can use this feature to quickly create and launch their commercial websites. Tools this module offers allow employees with various technical competence levels to update content on the site (such as titles, images, descriptions, specifications, etc.), add new products to the inventory, and customize the e-store’s look and feel to cater to the tastes and preferences of the target audience. Benefits of our ERP development services Understanding your business Our software development company can provide you with customized ERP software that can better understand your business and its needs than an off-the-rack solution. This is all due to a tailored work processes automation that analyzes your workflow and offers straightforward and relevant insight. There’s no need to adjust your work to the software anymore – not if the software is already calibrated to match you. Delivering on scope We always deliver on scope, which means we follow previously established and mutually agreed deadlines, and, in case of unforeseen circumstances, always report back and try to find a solution that will benefit both sides. We aim to strike a fine balance between quality and following all your requirements, and we don’t wander off with our own ideas about your project without your approval. Providing regular reports Our ERP development company understands that the success of any business endeavor depends on analyzing the wins and losses of the past and acting on them rather than letting things play out on their own. This is why we offer regular customized reports that are so valuable because they can help you make well-thought-out decisions based on facts and statistical research. Offering unique expertise With over a hundred large-scale successful projects in our repertoire, our team is competent enough to offer you unique expertise on all things ERP – from simple planning and nurturing an idea to launching a full-scale project. We also have valuable experience creating highly customizable solutions that require little to no effort in adjusting your company to new technology. Our ERP development process As a qualified and certified ERP development company, DICEUS has a well-established software development lifecycle in place that allows us to quickly and efficiently build top-notch solutions. Requirements gathering Our ERP development begins with gathering all your company’s requirements for the future system, including the input of not only the stakeholders but other essential workers as well. Every custom ERP is unique, and this stage is crucial for determining which issues the software will fix for you. The information gathering covers initial planning sessions over a couple of offline or online team meetings, documentation assembly, and agreements. UX/UI design We believe UX/UI design to be one of the main parts of ERP development since our solutions have numerous navigation and interaction elements. Therefore, they have to look both cohesive and refined. All modules should work seamlessly together and have a well-organized structural appearance. Besides, we ensure UI is uncluttered, intuitive, and user-friendly, allowing even personnel with low tech skills to leverage it effortlessly. Development The development stage is meant to prepare the ERP solution for successful operation. Our front-end and back-end engineers design the system’s architecture and data models, define the database’s structure, choose suitable programming languages, frameworks, and development tools, implement the selected roster of functionalities, and provide a seamless connection between front-end and back-end elements. Testing and QA To ensure an ERP project will flourish, our team makes a future system undergo rigorous testing, which can sometimes go hand in hand with the development process to adjust any configuration and any decision made along the way. We analyze its performance, quality, and whether the solution does match all of your initial requirements, as well as any security or integration needs. Deployment and support Before the system goes live, we do a final assessment and then give the all-clear. The final chunks of data are uploaded and approved. Your company’s team members will go through the onboarding process to learn how to use the new system before the old one is discarded. After the system is up and running, our purpose is to provide continuous support and make necessary adjustments and upgrades. Get professional consulting on your project! Send request What impacts your project duration Depending on project size and other significant factors, the custom ERP software development fulfillment period can last from a few days up to a few years. The following aspects determine the overall span of the project. Project requirements Scheduled time-to-market Team composition Chosen platforms and technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs To determine the total cost of your ERP solution, we take into account numerous factors. They depend on the specific solution that is planned to be implemented. Scope of work and project’s complexity The number of upgrades and customizations Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side The more relevant details and feedback we receive from your side, the better the result of your project is going to be, because, that way, we can be sure we’ve met all your expectations. We would appreciate the following information. Your detailed vision of the future ERP How would you define the project’s success Relevant documentation covering your business processes Meeting schedule and your availability Deadlines Our tech stack Explore our ERP software development case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case Frequently asked questions What are the basic modules of ERP systems? Depending on your business and its challenges, you can choose from the following basic ERP modules – Finance and Accounting, CRM, Human Capital Management, Procurement, Manufacturing, Order Management, Supply Chain Management, Inventory Management, and Warehouse Management. All of them, in one way or another, help with data centralization and task automation. Do you provide ERP modernization services? Yes, we do. We believe that sitting idly by and not modernizing your equipment and software can, in the end, cost more than timely upgrades. That’s why you can come to us if you need to update your software to match your current needs. In addition, we will analyze the overall complexity of modernizations required and provide you with appropriately budgeted and fitting solutions you can choose from. What unique features can you build for our ERP? It depends on how unique and unusual for a standard system your requirements are. Our more than a decade of ERP systems development expertise allows us to heavily adjust the already existing popular features, such as integration, automation, data analysis, reporting, financial management, customer relationship management, sales, marketing, supply chain, or manufacturing, and work within these areas. Similar industry Insurance Retail Custom software development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman