Large language model (LLM) development services Today, the power of generative AI models applied across multiple domains can’t be denied. To maximize its efficiency in your business operations, you should go beyond minimal training data and few-shot learning techniques and harness the potential of large language models (LLMs). DICEUS experts excel at creating first-rate custom solutions based on LLM models to streamline and facilitate handling various language-related tasks a specific business faces in its pipeline routine. Discuss your project Get consultation Our LLM development services LLM solutions are disruptive IT products geared by artificial intelligence and natural language processing (NLP) technologies. They have sophisticated language models at their core that, being trained on huge data volumes with the help of meta-transfer learning techniques, can perform complex language tasks of any character and scope. DICEUS, as a seasoned LLM development company, offers the entire scope of large language model development services to cover all business needs of your organization related to natural language understanding and content generation. Business analysis and consulting Our specialists conduct a thorough analysis of your business processes and the challenges you want to address by employing LLMs. They devise a comprehensive strategy for integrating large language models in your workflows and consult you on the choice of data security measures, model architecture, model training algorithms, and machine learning techniques (including transfer learning and supervised learning mechanisms). LLM-based chatbot development Chatbots and virtual assistants are the most widespread speech recognition systems employed by organizations as customer support and educational tools in their shop floor operations. We perform a full-cycle development of such advanced ML-based solutions, which are equipped with a large language model tailored to align with the business goals your company aims to reach. LLM chatbot integration In case your organization already has an internal digital ecosystem with a chatbot as its component, we implement a seamless LLM model integration into existing systems’ operation and customize model architecture to let it play well with the IT environment and boost the power of the newly upgraded system manifold. Maintenance and support Ongoing support and maintenance services are part of our comprehensive LLM development package. As a responsible large language model development company, DICEUS monitors the model’s performance to ensure its high quality, introduces updates, fine-tunes the system’s operation, troubleshoots it, addresses issues, manages risks, and optimizes its functioning. Build an innovative LLM-based chatbot for your business! Send request Benefits of LLM-based chatbots By harnessing LLM-fueled chatbots, organizations can enjoy multiple boons in their shop floor activities. Augmented customer service Being available 24/7, LLM chatbots can simultaneously process thousands of client queries and respond to them instantly. As a result, the clientele receives the best-in-class customer experience, which boosts their satisfaction and promotes brand loyalty. Workflow automation Deep learning techniques powering LLM chatbots allow such products to automate the lion’s share of pipeline operations and reduce paperwork, thus greatly increasing labor productivity. Multitasking opportunities Unlike humans, machines can handle a wide range of jobs simultaneously. Thanks to this capability, a single LLM chatbot can provide customer support, offer individualized recommendations, manage complaints, deal with bookings, perform data analysis, and more, covering numerous needs of an organization. Cost-efficiency The diminishing involvement of the human workforce spells fewer personnel expenditures and allows managers to free their employees to solve more complex and creative (especially decision-making) tasks. Personalization of services High-end custom NLP models of LLM chatbots are second-to-none tools for customer data collection and subsequent sentiment analysis. They can be trained to analyze text data and obtain valuable insights into customer behavior, which paves the way for tailored services, upselling and cross-selling initiatives, and a customized approach to each client. Contextual understanding Advanced LLM chatbots’ in-context learning abilities help them understand human language in all its complexity and generate contextually relevant responses, making human-machine communication lifelike to the maximum. Continuous learning Machine learning models of LLM chatbots act like online learning neural networks, improving over time and enriching their knowledge from new interactions that enhance model performance. As a result, they get ever more sophisticated and can better understand customers and employees. Inclusivity and accessibility When trained on the material of different languages and dialects, LLM chatbots are highly instrumental in language translation and reaching out to a diverse global audience. Besides, they can be adjusted for the needs of users with disabilities, promoting inclusivity on a large scale. Advantages of cooperation with DICEUS When looking for a reliable and competent vendor for their high-tech projects, organizations consider multiple factors. What makes DICEUS a top option as an outsourcing partner for developing an LLM-driven chatbot? In-depth expertise in the niche Building an LLM chatbot requires substantial theoretical knowledge and exclusive hands-on skills in AI technologies and chatbot development. DICEUS, with its certified and qualified staff having 14+ years of experience in the IT sector, ticks both boxes. Competence We have cooperated with numerous companies worldwide and have delivered dozens of projects in banking, fintech, insurance, retail, construction, healthcare, logistics, and other fields. As a result, we have accumulated a vast store of niche expertise related to various domains. Individualized approach We realize that each customer and use case is unique. That is why we tailor the overall strategy for handling chatbot projects to align it with every particular organization’s business goals, pipeline peculiarities, target audience specifics, and current industry trends. Security focus In our data-driven world, information is a vital asset that can ultimately make or break an organization or an individual. That is why we practice a security-first approach to creating digital products, ensuring the safety of our customers’ financial, business, and personal data, and complying with regulations in this realm. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Key steps in developing a Large Language Model As a vetted expert in chatbot development, DICEUS has devised an 8-step roadmap for the LLM development process. LLM development process Pinch and spread for zoom Step 1. Use case definition We kick off by identifying the business problem the future LLM chatbot is meant to address. Our specialists study your organization’s professional workflow and industry niche, target audience, preferences, and pain points to identify the LLM model to be leveraged and its customization requirements. Step 2. Data preparation To train the model, we collect as voluminous a dataset as possible, making sure it contains relevant, accurate, and consistent data. Then, the records are cleaned and translated into a suitable format so that the model can use them. Step 3. Model architecture Now, we select an appropriate architecture for the specific use case, optimize model performance, and adjust its hyperparameters (batch size, number of neurons/layers, learning rate, etc.) to maximize its accuracy and efficiency. Step 4. Training This is the longest stage to accomplish since the LLM is taught to comprehend domain-specific data during it. We begin training by feeding in small data inputs, gradually increasing the volume and monitoring the process to minimize the difference between the predictions and actual output. Step 5. Evaluation The training is followed by assessing the LLM solution’s performance via specialized metrics and validation data to understand whether it meets accuracy and quality requirements. In case it doesn’t, our engineers introduce corrections into the model architecture or training process and repeat the training until they receive a desirable outcome. Step 6. Deployment As soon as the chatbot’s seamless operation is validated, it is deployed to the environment where it will run. To make the whole system tick, we create an array of APIs, enabling different infrastructure elements to communicate with each other. Step 7. Monitoring and maintenance Advanced technologies like LLM chatbots require constant control and maintenance. We gather feedback on their operation, react to negative reviews, update the model, and periodically retrain it to stay abreast of evolving business needs and the fluctuating industry landscape. Step 8. Ethical considerations In fact, this is not the final step of LLM chatbot development since AI ethics are addressed throughout the entire SDLC. At every stage, we consider the privacy of sensitive data, provide model transparency and accountability, maximize its fairness, and eliminate dataset bias. Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case FAQ What is Large Language Model development, and how can it benefit my business? LLM model development covers the creation of AI-powered NLP models that are trained on huge datasets. By making LLM-driven solutions (especially chatbots) an integral element of your organization’s digital ecosystem, you can boost customer service, augment its accessibility and inclusivity, automate pipeline tasks, reduce OPEX, personalize your services and products, and ensure contextual understanding of input data, which is getting more sophisticated as the model continuously learns and improves. As an LLM development company, what services does DICEUS offer? Our company performs a comprehensive analysis of your organization’s business needs, devises a full-cycle strategy for LLM implementation, consults you on various aspects of the process, creates LLM-fueled chatbots, seamlessly integrates them into your company’s IT ecosystem, and conducts post-launch support and maintenance of solutions we build. What industries does DICEUS cover? Our specialists have delivered high-end chatbots and other AI-powered solutions to enterprises across multiple verticals, including fintech, insurance, banking, retail, healthcare, construction, logistics, and more, which has allowed us to obtain an in-depth understanding of these fields and a broad awareness of the nitty-gritty of operational pipeline across all these sectors. How does DICEUS ensure the quality of LLM-based solutions? The quality of LLM-powered products can be ensured via continuous performance monitoring, reliance on human evaluation of their functioning, rigid version control, maintaining straightforward documentation, and employing adequate general quality metrics (that gauge answer and contextual relevancy, output correctness, bias and toxicity, and more), as well as various task-specific quality criteria indices. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman