Data governance project for a bank Services provided Software architecture UI/UX design Custom software development Automated testing DevOps System integration Expertise used BI and reporting Oracle Data warehouse and ETL Industry Banking Project overview Our customer sought to establish effective and comprehensive policies for handling BDW/BI/MIS data across the executive team and all other bank departments. Within the project’s scope, we analyzed existing reports, created structured JSON-based report descriptions, a business glossary, and logical report data models. We also developed a high-level bank ontological model and a structured hierarchy of the bank metadata pool, which included data sources, business entities, and SQL queries to gather necessary data. Our goal was also to develop a more differentiated approach to accessing reports based on Role-Based Access Control (RBAC), create and implement data filtering and masking mechanisms for report visualization based on user roles, and develop the cloud Data Governance Framework, implementing all the above-mentioned features based on Django (Python). Business challenge The bank lacked a unified approach to governing its BDW/BI/MIS data, which made it difficult for bank employees to access accurate, consistent, and secure reports. Our customer needed to enhance data governance, standardize reporting processes, and ensure that sensitive information was properly filtered, masked, and role-restricted, while also creating a scalable framework to support future growth and compliance requirements. Technical challenges The main technical challenge was the integration of the solution offered by DICEUS with diverse multi-platform cloud and in-house infrastructure. Solution delivered We implemented a cloud-based Data Governance Framework that standardized the bank’s reporting processes. Our solution includes structured JSON report descriptions, a unified business glossary, logical data and ontological models, and a centralized metadata hierarchy connecting data sources, entities, and SQL queries. Role-Based Access Control with data filtering and masking ensured differentiated access and protection of sensitive information. As a result, BI developers can now build reports through a graphical interface without needing to understand the physical data structure. The new framework turned data into a strategic asset and strengthen decision-making across the bank. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Structured JSON-based report descriptions High-level bank ontological model Business Glossary Logical report’s data models Approach to accessing reports based on Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Data filtering and masking mechanisms for report visualization based on user roles Structured hierarchy of the bank metadata pool, including data sources, business entities, and SQL queries that gather necessary data Cloud Data Governance Framework Value to our client Faster reporting With our solution, BI developers can create reports through a graphical interface without needing technical knowledge of physical data structures. Standardized processes The reporting process is enhanced through the use of an ontological model, logical data model, and metadata pool, ensuring consistency and scalability across business units. Stronger data governance A modern data infrastructure with structured processes ensures secure, transparent, and well-managed use of data as a strategic asset of the bank. Our tech stack SQL Python (Django) Java/EE JavaScript Client feedback We have great progress now. Let’s do a demo/walkthrough of COMPLETED flows in managing data points in the platform. Our other cases Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Banking IT staff augmentation for Raiffeisen Bank’s IT projects Banking POC for Raiffeisen Bank self‑service terminal development Banking Blockchain-based crypto wallet for ICO and crowdsales Banking Contactless payment solution Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman