Super App for Investment and Life Cover Insurance Companies Super App is a multilingual mobile application built for insurance companies. It delivers a first‑class customer experience for policyholders and automates key insurance processes, including premium payments, fund management, switching funds, event‑triggered proposals, and more. Book a demo Investment insurance Policyholders can check the performance of their investments in the mobile app. That will increase the usage of the application and the likelihood that the user will use other functionalities or buy additional insurance products or riders. The investment insurance card can show the total contribution of investments, current policy value, and the performance of total contribution on a predefined period basis – we can integrate any chart the insurance company wants to display. Life cover insurance Our Super App provides customers of insurance companies with a centralized repository to easily manage their life insurance, investments, and other products. The app fosters higher customer engagement, provides data-driven insights into customer preferences, and enhances operational efficiency. Features Digital insurance cards Policyholders can access all their policies through digital insurance cards by swiping and view the details of each policy by tapping on the respective card. A digital insurance card displays essential information about the policy: plan name, policyholder's name, contract number, expiry date, and card status. Once opened, each card shows detailed information about the plan. Details/plan information Once opened, insurance digital cards show all the details about the plan: insurance product name, terms, contract number, insurance riders, beneficiaries, premiums, and death benefits. Also, users can see the details of plan information: payment frequency, amount due, premium, last premium paid date, plan currency, issue date, total contribution, and statuses. Agent details and net surrender values are also available with this information. Saving products Super App provides policyholders with access to their savings products, which are usually associated with whole life and universal life insurance, and all the details of the savings plans. Funds rebalancing Policyholders select funds and assets for rebalancing, define the desired percentage allocation for each fund in the portfolio, and approve the rebalancing request. This feature is useful for insurers as it allows them to maintain optimal portfolio diversification, manage risk, and ensure that investments align with policyholders’ financial goals and desired asset allocations over time. Proposals Personalized life insurance proposals can be sent to policyholders directly in the app. Once received, the details of the proposal can be viewed by the user and accepted or rejected. Event-triggered proposals Event-triggered proposals are driven by backend logic that captures specific user events (location, app activity, transaction history, etc.). Depending on the event, policyholders get relevant, context-related proposals in real time. Insurers can create predefined business rules in the backend to effectively process events. Proposals delivered at the right moment increase the likelihood that policyholders will buy additional insurance products. Requests to update policyholder information To receive new proposals, users should provide additional information that includes medical information (age, gender, health history, etc.), compliance information (passport, driver's license, address, etc.), and financial information (proof of income, bank statements, income tax returns, etc.). Users are also asked to update their residential or correspondence address, contact details, and bank details when needed. It enhances user convenience and ensures data accuracy, without additional support from the insurance company’s side. Payment pauses This feature allows policyholders to suspend their premium payments under specific conditions temporarily. It is valuable during personal financial difficulties, unforeseen circumstances like job loss or illness, or global economic crises. Payment reminders Payment reminders notify policyholders of upcoming premium due dates. They can be integrated in different ways: push or pop-up notifications, in-app reminders, or banner alerts. For example, users may see notification about due dates while viewing policy details. For insurance companies, this functionality improves operational efficiency associated with policy renewals, timely payments, and customer retention. Policy renewal triggered by ending contract Policyholders get new proposals when their policy is nearing expiration. It provides personalized renewal or upgrade options based on policyholder’s existing plan and financial goals, enabling a smooth application process. For insurance companies, this feature increases the retention rate, provides upselling opportunities, and improves customer loyalty. Benefits Life insurance riders associated with a particular product are displayed in "Benefits," where policyholders can check all the details of the rider. Documents Here, policyholders can instantly access critical documents and download documents related to a particular insurance product, such as policy agreements, transaction history, bonus statements, etc. Chatbot Our LLM-powered chatbot that understands context, recognizes voice and written messages. It allows clients to instantly get assistance, buy a policy, and file a claim. Besides, the chatbot can communicate in multiple languages simultaneously. Super App can be customized according to your needs, requirements, and company’s branding Request a demo Store Super App offers a Store functionality that allows policyholders to buy additional insurance products like health insurance for family members, life insurance, car insurance, home insurance, etc. This feature enhances customer convenience by providing a seamless and user-friendly experience, enabling policyholders to explore and purchase tailored coverage options directly from their mobile devices, thereby fostering cross-selling opportunities and boosting customer engagement. Policy details "My policies" is a central hub for users to view, manage, and update their insurance policies. View active policies, coverage details, and renewal dates View inactive policies View policies for relatives (children, spouses) Add policies to a digital card wallet Policy updates (e.g., change of coverage) Download policy documents (e.g., PDF copies) Policy renewal and purchase options Premium due date notifications and reminders Payment plan options (monthly, quarterly, yearly) Notifications Notifications work for any insurance business line and may be set up according to the insurance company's workflows. This feature covers all types of notifications, including status updates, push notifications, alerts, reminders, news, offers, due dates, and more. Authorization The user signs in using a standard password and a one-time password (OTP). Two-factor authentication is a secure way to log in, protecting accounts from all cyber-attacks. Biometric login Super App supports code and biometric identification for login, such as Touch/Face ID. User profile Policyholders can view and modify their personal information (name, date of birth, phone number, and email). Integrations Super App can be integrated with any customer's IT system: core insurance systems, payment gateways, open data portals, CRM systems, and others. Also, integration with IoT devices like healthcare wearables is available. NPS, engagement surveys, and loyalty programs Super App allows insurers to collect NPS (Net Promoter Score) metric by periodically sending a standard NPS survey to customers in the app and analyzing customer satisfaction with insurance products and services. Personalized surveys can be created by the insurance company and sent to the customer directly in a mobile app. Policyholders can share their feedback on social media platforms and refer the insurance company to their friends. For that, they get special bonuses — discounts for policy renewals, for example. Security The security of Super App is ensured by authentication and authorization mechanisms like biometrics and two-factor authentication. Regular vulnerability assessments and penetration testing help identify and address potential threats. Additionally, secure app development frameworks and adherence to platform-specific guidelines (like Apple's App Store Review Guidelines or Google Play's Developer Policy) further reinforce security, ensuring apps meet industry standards. Multilingual support This feature allows policyholders to interact with the app in their preferred language. Users are able to select their language in settings, and the app will adjust the content accordingly. So, insurance companies can cater to the needs of diverse audiences if this is required by the company’s business goals. Find the right solution for your needs Talk to our expert Diana Mircheva Product Owner at DICEUS Benefits of Super App For insurance companies Reduced costs on customer support Increased customer engagement Increased revenue Improved CX and increased customer satisfaction Reduced paperwork and eliminated manual jobs Automated key processes For customers of insurance companies 24/7 customer support Access to self-service features Ability to check investment performance Possibility to allocate investment between different funds Online quote generation and policy purchase Personalized offerings and recommendations Pricing model The pricing components include three components: licenses (base fee, module‑specific fee), support, and implementation. A customization option is available and is calculated separately. It consists of a discovery phase and customization itself. Base Fee License paid yearly A fixed fee that covers general access to the platform and all core features that come with all modules Authorization Biometric login User profile Store Notifications Security Policy details Module-specific Fee paid yearly Additional fees for each module that the insurance company activates Health insurance module Investment and life insurance module Car insurance module Travel insurance module Chatbot Support paid yearly Includes fee for technical support and functionality extension CET time zone support hours Response time depends on the incident severity and support package purchased Communication channels: chat, email, remote sessions Consultations on functionality Notifications of new releases and critical security updates Regular updates and bug fixes Infrastructure maintenance Customization Discovery phase: Business and functional requirements Non-functional requirements Integration points and data flows Configuration and customization scope Product customization Mobile app customized according to requirements for two platforms, iOS and Android, tested and published in AppStore and Google Play Market Super App can be customized according to your needs, requirements, and company’s branding Request a demo Other ready-made software products Data Warehouse for Insurance Alternative Risk Platform Captive Owner Portal Group Insurance Management Platform Risk Retention Group Management Platform Policy Administration System Platform for captives and captive managers Insurance General Ledger Platform Group Insurance Management Platform for Life & Pensions AI-Powered Chatbot Super App Customer Web Portal AI-Powered Underwriting Platform for Life Insurance Reinsurance Platform​ Broker Portal Underwriting Workbench for Health Insurance AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Group Health Insurance Management Platform Captive Management Platform All solutions Request a demo 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman