KloonRisk – an insurance broker solution for Kloud-Soft Services provided UI/UX design Software architecture Web app development Manual testing DevOps Data migration services Expertise used Cloud solutions BI and reporting Industry Insurance Project overview The underlying responsibility and major task in insurance is providing, claiming, and negotiating insurance compensations. For this area of work, profiled specialists are assigned. In the era of huge data accumulation and all-consuming digitizing, such specialists need sufficient software powers to better cope with their responsibilities. The insurance broker solution we built for the insurance-focused client provides great automation capabilities to facilitate and accelerate insurance compensation management in the company. Client Kloud-Soft Team 4 members Country Singapore Duration 6 months Client information Kloon Risk Management is a Singapore-based provider of a wide range of insurance management capabilities. Covering an extensive list of industries and niches, the company’s philosophy is to help businesses optimize and improve the performance in the market by excluding major risks and errors. Business challenge Compensation management in insurance can become an increasingly time and effort consuming task highly difficult for a human specialist or even a whole team of specialists to handle. The related data in an insurance company accumulates endlessly and every process must be as precise as possible. A dedicated broker software solution is intended to help a company handle such routines without any downtime, excluding a lot of manual work and boosting an insurance provider’s performance all-around. Technical challenges For Kloud-Soft, we had to implement a convenient cloud-based interface for managing a number of insurance-related elements, such as leads, quotations, debit notes, claims, policies, clients, etc. All that is centered around intuitive insurance broker functionality. Every element has respective descriptions (details), listings, and editing capabilities. On top of all basic interface functionality features, we had to also implement authentication, set up and configure hosting via Azure Cloud, and assure the high quality of the whole solution. Solution delivered KloonRisk is a versatile insurance broker software solution to help the client keep lots of important insurance data in one place and better manage compensation claims. Th ability to list leads, clients and related data on them makes KloonRisk quite a universal tool that company specialists can use on a regular basis to keep everything in check. Without going too far, all the info on claims and where they are directed can be accessed right away. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Quotation, leads, & debit notes The client can create, edit, and delete detailed description forms for leads, quotations, and debits, send manual reminders, email notes to an insurer, submit and update commission fees, and more. Policy & client descriptions Clients can be conveniently listed and described in the dedicated fields subdivided into the clients and policy details. Separate claims interface On the special screen, claims can be created and edited, history of resubmission can be viewed, partial and full payment forms can be filled, and cover letter can be generated and notified about. Value to our client All in one place While focused on insurance broker responsibilities, KloonRisk is a great solution to keep essential insurance client data in one place. Sturdy web software Using Microsoft Azure as a foundation, the software is fully cloud-based, which means it doesn’t depend on hardware and will never go offline. Cost-efficient growth As stored data accumulates and more space is needed, there won’t be any server transfer issues and the client will only pay for the cloud storage capacity used. Our tech stack Microsoft Azure Cloud Angular .NET/ASP.NET HTML Bootstrap Visual Studio Git Jira Selenium Telerik Kendo UI NUnit Microsoft Project Our other cases Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman