Insurance software testing and QA services DICEUS provides insurance software testing services for insurance and insurtech companies to improve the quality of their software products. We also develop custom software and offer advanced digital solutions for the insurance sector (mobile apps, web portals, Consult with a QA expert Learn the price There is hardly a business domain in the modern digitally driven world that hasn’t undergone rapid and profound transformations caused by the widespread advent of Industry 4.0. The insurance realm is moving in the wake of this trend, employing an entire range of digital tools, channels, and technologies, including AI, ML, cloud, blockchain, big data, and more. But to guarantee complete customer satisfaction, all of them should function smoothly and error-free. Insurance software testing is testing aimed at checking and verifying the functionality, performance, security, and reliability of software applications developed for and used in the insurance industry. For example, functionality testing is usually performed to check the key functionalities of insurance software, including policy management, claim processing, underwriting, billing, payments, and many more. Special attention is paid to checking customer experience as it is one of the most important aspects of providing high-quality services. DICEUS provides both manual and automated insurance software testing services. You can read more about these services below. Types of testing for insurance Pinch and spread for zoom Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Manual testing The insurance application software must, above all, satisfy the end user. We ensure such satisfaction by adopting their perspective while testing professional solutions in the niche. The manual testing procedure covers several techniques, including conducting installation, user acceptance, error handling, UI, usability, and security checks. Learn more about manual testing services Automation testing This kind of testing is performed by machines, not humans, which allows for the drastic reduction of insurance software development time and provides maximum control over each step in the solution-building pipeline. We create custom test scripts that are employed to launch high-end unit, regression, input-output, cookies, and other types of testing. Learn more about automated testing services Functional testing As the name suggests, functional insurance application testing is called to analyze and assess each function of the solution. Our team checks the validity of each characteristic against the functional requirements set upon them. Relying on the method of black box testing, they feed in an appropriate input and see whether the output corresponds to the functional specifications. Performance testing The performance of a website or an app is one of the mission-critical parameters that ultimately condition the success or failure of the solution. The software testing service experts of DICEUS check how stable, responsive, fast, and scalable the product is under a certain workload. It is done by evaluating processing and data transfer speed, memory utilization, maximum concurrent users, etc. Penetration testing Cybercrime threats and possible data leakages are a nightmare for any digitally powered insurance company today. Penetration testing aims to identify vulnerabilities in the defensive armor of professional solutions and databases and eliminate breaches that can lead to illegal access to sensitive and financial data without its owners’ consent. Learn more about pen testing services Integration testing In the closely-knit contemporary digital environment, any software piece never operates alone. Integration testing procedures performed by our specialists involve combining several modules of the system under scrutiny to check their functioning together. Engineering and running such tests ensure that all elements of your insurance software system play well together. The rapid progress in the insurance industry leaves niche players with no choice but to harness state-of-the-art technologies. Their usage will allow them to not only keep their nose above the water but thrive and expand in this increasingly competitive market. Yet such an outcome is only possible if the solutions they rely on in their workflow operate up to the mark. DICEUS can help you excel in business and outcompete your rivals by providing top-notch insurance QA and testing services. With our deep understanding of vital shop floor processes in the sphere and long-time experience in delivering first-rate testing and QA, insurance companies can accelerate and streamline their routine pipeline and attain exclusive satisfaction of their clientele. Can’t find the service you are looking for? Services for insurance Want to discuss your project? Contact us Benefits of insurance testing and QA services No solution can be considered fully functional and ready for large-scale employment until thoroughly tested. This is even more true of professional software in the realm of insurance, which involves substantial sums and serious financial risks. By conducting meticulous testing and quality assurance, insurance companies can reap the following benefits. Enhanced operations As happens in any unique field of activity, the insurance pipeline abounds in industry-specific operations that largely rely on professional software. When the latter functions smoothly, quote issuing, billing, claims processing, and other routine tasks are performed efficiently and quickly, thus increasing your organization’s overall productivity and ROI. Augmented user experience This is the overarching goal testers and QA experts strive to achieve. Whether the solution’s end users are company management, rank-and-file personnel, or clients, all should be able to utilize an easy-to-operate, intuitive, and error-free software system that lives up to their expectations in terms of performance and functionality. Utmost security In the digitally fueled 21st century, cybercrime is growing apace. Moreover, it tends to concentrate on areas where malefactors can make maximum profit by accessing people’s financial or personal data. The insurance industry is one such field in which the security of systems and the safety of databases vitally depend on efficient testing. Superb customer retention A disgruntled customer will hardly make use of your insurance company’s services (to say nothing of continuing cooperation with it in the future) if the app or website they try to leverage is too complicated and confusing, crashes often, or takes ages to download. By testing it properly, you will eliminate such issues and turn one-time visitors into loyal clients. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our testing processes During the dozen years of our presence on the digital market, the vetted team of testing engineers and QA experts of DICEUS has developed a universal roadmap for conducting software tests of various types and performing a QA procedure. How do we tackle such projects? Preliminary analysis We read deeply into the business, security, and technical requirements set up for the project by the customer. Besides, we analyze the software solutions that we are going to test in terms of their current functioning, user audience, and history of previous employment. Devising testing strategy Having all the collected data at their fingertips, our experts use them as insights for mapping out a comprehensive testing strategy. It includes a detailed plan of action, objectives to be attained, schedules, tool roster, and the composition of the team to conduct the testing. Test execution This is the core of the procedure, and it takes the longest to accomplish. The execution comprises stages such as prioritizing the most critical defects, bugs, and other software issues, creating a test case, setting up a test environment, preparing data, developing and maintaining test scripts, and implementing the test itself. QA optimization Each phase of the procedure generates valuable information from technical teams about the efficiency of the chosen methods and tools. This information is analyzed to optimize CI/CD pipelines, improve testing approaches, modify testing mechanisms, and add new tools to the tech stack. What impacts your project duration The length of the insurance software quality testing procedure is hard to measure unless we are aware of the following factors. Project requirements Scheduled deadlines Testing team composition Selected tech stack and platform The complexity of test cases What affects your project costs To calculate the sum you will have to allocate for conducting testing and QA of your solution, we need to know the following aspects: Urgency of completion Leveraged technologies Project scope and complexity The chosen engagement model (Dedicated Team or Time and Material) The duration of the project What we need from your side Exhaustive testing and QA can be accomplished only if the customer is ready to cooperate with us closely throughout the entire procedure. The project will proceed swiftly and efficiently if you provide the following information: Goals of insurance software testing Software compliance requirements Project-related documentation, like software architecture or mockups (if any exist) Expected deadlines Customer’s availability for requirements sessions (as a rule, several hours per week) Our achievements Our tech stack Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Explore our case studies Banking Data governance project for a bank Social media Business networking social platform Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Agriculture Earth observation crop rotation software Financial Web-based binary option platform on cryptocurrencies Frequently asked questions Why is software testing important for insurance? The modern insurance industry is implementing a full-scale digitalization policy by onboarding state-of-the-art technologies. However, the functioning of professional applications and other solutions still leaves much to be desired regarding robustness, security, and error-free operation. Software testing is the only way to guarantee the seamless performance of the insurance companies’ ecosystems. What types of testing do you provide? Our competent and seasoned team is ready to run a comprehensive testing program to cover all areas and aspects of the digital environment of insurance organizations. The roster of technologies they apply and the innovative approaches they leverage enable them to conduct the entire scope of procedures within manual, automation, functional, penetration, performance, and integration software testing. What are the benefits of QA services for insurance? Quality assurance is mission-critical for insurance companies with big-time aspirations that provide their services via digital channels. When performed by a qualified team armed with cutting-edge tools, QA can step up data and infrastructure privacy and protection, implement automation of shop floor processes, improve user experience, and increase customer retention, thus maximizing ROI. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman