mHealth app development services DICEUS provides custom mHealth app development services and solutions. We offer tailored native, hybrid, progressive, or cross-platform applications with unique software foundations. DICEUS can become your one-stop mHealth app development company to keep your target audience satisfied and healthy with an accessible, secure, and budget-efficient application. Discuss requirements Book a call mHealth applications we can build The ubiquity of mobile devices allows people to enjoy a wide range of services by making several taps on their smartphone screen. The same applies to medical services that can be brought within reach via mobile health apps (or mHealth apps). These robust healthcare solutions serve as gateways for condition management, health supervision, and obtaining medical insights. They enable healthcare organizations to perform remote patient monitoring and healthcare delivery, improving patients’ health outcomes and fostering a healthy lifestyle. DICEUS empowers healthcare with innovative technologies, making your services more capable and cost-effective than ever. For this, we put more than 13 years of field experience into your project, making sure the final product grants fast access to medical data, streamlines disease management, and tracks treatment progress. Mobile patient portals DICEUS enables secure and convenient access to all relevant medical information in one place. With a detailed understanding of industry requirements, we are up to implementing a wide range of features for simple and effective healthcare management. Mobile patient portals give you advanced scheduling capabilities, messaging features, and access to educational tools through custom mHealth app development. Doctor-patient channels Improving the quality of patient communication with healthcare organizations is a top priority for DICEUS specialists. We help create a comfortable space for transparent conversations using up-to-date tools, including video calls, live chat, text messages, emails, social media, virtual patient surveys, and fast-access phone calls. Telehealth applications DICEUS produces software solutions that simplify access to qualified medical assistance. Users can get timely critical doctor recommendations via remote consultations and diagnosis using built-in mHealth tools. With an app that expands physicians’ capabilities within and beyond clinics, your staff can treat patients and save lives at a new level of efficiency. Medical IoT solutions The fruits of mHealth app development by DICEUS streamline administration and make healthcare more efficient through location tracking, physical activity analysis, convenient access to stored data, and continuous monitoring of sleep and blood pressure. Our mobile solutions enable users to stay within their doctor’s reach at all times, thanks to the flexibility of interconnected networks. Chronic disease-tracking apps Our best-in-class healthcare software development services can provide you with a high-end tool for constantly monitoring chronically ill people online and sending them reminders concerning taking medications. Patients log their symptoms daily to let medical professionals keep track of their critical health indices presented in the form of illustrative graphs and issue data-driven recommendations. We develop remote healthcare apps that can be integrated with medical devices (like glucose meters or blood pressure monitors) or other digital products (for instance, wellness apps or fitness tracking apps). Preventive medicine apps Insurance companies can use preventive medicine apps to promote healthy lifestyles to policyholders and decrease claims costs. These apps often focus on fitness, nutrition, stress management, and chronic disease prevention by offering personalized recommendations, reminders, and tracking tools. They use data from wearable devices, user input, and AI algorithms to provide insights into habits and potential health risks. Popular features include fitness goal setting, calorie tracking, sleep monitoring, and mental health exercises, empowering users to make proactive decisions about their health while potentially reducing the burden on healthcare systems. Estimate your mHealth project! Send request Features of mobile health apps we can implement Based on a deep understanding of your project needs and goals, our team offers a full range of mobile capabilities that allow your business to achieve new goals and leverage performance. Here’s what we enable in your mHealth solutions. Appointments with doctors Electronic Health Records Health data analytics Streamlined communication Maps showing the nearest clinics or hospitals Compliance with regulations Which organizations gain from developing custom mHealth apps We develop mHealth apps that find multiple use cases across various medical organizations and other agents whose operation is related to healthcare systems. Hospitals General-purpose hospitals and specialized clinics (like dental, oncological, dermatological, etc.) are the primary healthcare facilities that stand to benefit from launching their mHealth app. Various solutions help them automate their workflows, centralize access to EHR, streamline laboratory, inventory, and appointment management, facilitate billing processing, boost medical research, and more. Ambulatories They provide out-patient care, so the key function of mHealth applications here is to provide efficient 24/7 remote patient monitoring and preventive treatment. A special place among mHealth products honed for this use case is taken by mental health apps that help fight psychological disorders and substance abuse by providing people with a round-the-clock communication channel with specialists and offering pre-recorded meditations, breathing exercises, gamification elements, and the like. Birth сenters and baby clinics For expectant mothers, it is vital to maintain constant rapport with their gynecologists and obstetricians, who can allay their fears and give timely advice in case of emergency. And when the baby is born, women should also have a liaison with specialists whose help may very often turn out to be a life-and-death issue. mHealth apps are perfect tools for such instances requiring instant interaction and professional consultation. Pharmacies and pharmaceutical companies These organizations leverage mHealth solutions as universal digital tools for optimizing shop floor activities and enhancing the efficiency of services. They improve prescription and inventory management, medication dispensing, and analysis of the enterprise’s performance indices. For pharma companies, such apps are a good crutch in facilitating the drug development cycle, boosting clinical trials, and ensuring coordination between departments. Insurance agencies mHealth apps serve double purposes in this sphere. On the one hand, they can be equipped with specialized modules that streamline health insurance pipeline operations (policy renewal, claim filing and processing, damage evaluation, payment disbursement, and more) and provide ultimate health insurance portability. On the other hand, they help insurers create their customers’ risk profiles and understand potential health threats their clients are exposed to, thus improving underwriting and premium calculation. Sports facilities Here belong indoor and outdoor locations and accommodations (such as gyms, stadiums, swimming pools, bowling alleys, squash and tennis courts, roller and ice rinks, work-out premises, and more) where people engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions. Specialized fitness apps leveraged by their frequenters help them set and reach personal goals, foster training habits, monitor vital health parameters, and keep to a balanced diet. Some facts about DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our mHealth app development services At DICEUS, we put clients above all, which is why we adhere to the principle of a personalized approach to service delivery. We offer applications that seamlessly integrate with other platforms. An open API allows access to more information, enhancing value. In our work, we utilize advertising and social networks, analytics, advanced information storage systems, and proven algorithms. All to deliver a market-defining product through the following stages. Product discovery First things first, the DICEUS team defines the application’s scope of functionality based on your goals and expectations. We learn how the technological components will fit together and create a shared vision of the product. We then compile technical specifications, design an adaptive user interface layout in line with industry standards, and coordinate the work schedule with the client. Architecture and business logic We design multi-level application architecture ready for all types of mobile platforms. This grants flexibility, scalability, clarity of code, and testability of the finished app. Features are added according to the client’s business goals, and server-side functionality is shaped by various application usage scenarios. The consistent business logic we achieve as a result makes it easier to access critical data and simplifies operations. CX research and user journey mapping DICEUS experts thoroughly research different customer experience scenarios to create a patient-oriented user journey. We implement interface elements and visual compositions while ensuring a high level of interaction and engagement. Our team identifies functional capabilities and begins coding based on the chosen platform’s specifics. And a flexible workflow process allows you to stay updated with rapid releases. UI/UX design At DICEUS, we are committed to enhancing customer satisfaction through visually appealing, user-friendly, and consistently available software products. We offer a comprehensive approach based on business analysis and understanding of particular goals, making your concepts truly recognizable. Our apps are unique and actively encourage action with flawless design and servicing efficiency. Front-end for mobile apps The DICEUS team delivers in-depth experience in implementing platforms based on .Net, Node.js, React, Python, and Flutter. We are well-versed in all relevant mobile frontend technologies, so we can ensure your project’s success with the best programming methods and tools. And our creative input guarantees a custom-designed app with no equals. Back-end for mobile apps In terms of the behind-the-curtain mHealth app functionality, we build secure and easily scalable cloud-based server solutions. Or we can take existing legacy software and modernize it. DICEUS engineers take care of all internal development tasks and integration of third-party APIs into your app, making it fast, accessible, and appealing to new users. Testing and quality assurance We verify the results of our work at every development stage, compiling documentation spanning all project specifics and business analyst recommendations. Our specialists conduct automated and manual testing sessions for both the MVP and the ready-to-launch version of an app. Followed by comprehensive QA, this gives you a guarantee of high quality, performance, and absence of code errors, bugs, discrepancies, and other potential issues and risks. Support and maintenance DICEUS will manage the entire project from start to finish until you achieve the desired outcome. Our team guarantees regular support and updates for your application to ensure it remains reliable and secure after the launch. You can request additional functionality changes and services for a major or basic redesign. Can’t find a service you are looking for? Explore all services Want to discuss your project? Contact us How DICEUS custom mHealth app development services work DICEUS always sticks to the cause. We know how to achieve the best custom app development results for your exact requirements, be it digital product creation from scratch, modernization of the app, or integration of new features. To make our collaboration more productive, some input we are going to need from you includes: Application goals, vision, and roadmap (f available) Key requirements Documentation (e.g., software architecture and layouts) A few hours a week for requirements gathering meetings Project timeline Benefits of cooperation with DICEUS Based on your request, our healthcare mobile app development company can create unique EHR, EMR, mobile healthcare platforms, patient portals, remote patient monitoring (PRM) applications, clinical process management solutions, and much more. We offer a one-stop way to elevate your healthcare performance to a whole new level of customer satisfaction, RoI, and profits. With DICEUS by your side, you get: A custom product shaped by individual requirements Cost-efficient solutions as we offer only the features you need Increased customer base and expanded service offerings Improved patient service through enhanced quality and accessibility Seamless interaction with healthcare organizations worldwide Streamlined medical information retrieval and exchange New revenue streams Reduced administrative burden through process automation Our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What is mHealth? Mobile health is a term used to describe the practice of providing medical and public health services using mobile devices. The concept is most commonly associated with smartphones, tablets, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and smartwatches, which are used for accessing information and accessing medical services of all sorts. What are custom mHealth app development services? These are services for developing and maintaining applications that meet individual healthcare requirements. Unique, tailored digital products create additional sales channels for clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical and equipment manufacturers, etc. The goal is to achieve a stand-out mobile app that streamlines service quality in well-planned and analyzed ways. Why should I consider a custom mHealth app for my healthcare business? A unique mHealth application that leverages your services gives you a competitive advantage by reducing administrative burdens and the overall cost of medical services. By tracking symptoms and calling a doctor via video communication, patients save money and time on clinic visits, ultimately benefiting the budget associated with outpatient examinations and treatment. What are the benefits of custom mHealth app development services? The ability to remotely administer medical services in real-time offers competitive advantages such as: 1) Improved service quality 2) Increased customer loyalty and revenue 3) Reduced staff workload 4) Rapid response and reliable feedback 5) Personalized offerings Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman