Iryna Kravchenko Chief Editor Share Do you like this article? Yes No Interviews · 6 min. read · 2788 reads · 13 Feb 2023 13 Nov 2025 GoodFirms interview with Illia Pinchuk, DICEUS CEO: Sincerity builds trust and confidence in clients DICEUS offers impeccable customized software solutions and other IT services worldwide. The company has a tremendous reputation for delivering projects on time and bringing excellent results on a global scale. Their development team’s persistent determination helps clients to achieve their goals successfully. This article by GoodFirms provides insight into the successful journey of DICEUS, shared by its CEO, Illia Pinchuk. DICEUS is a renowned IT company that offers custom software development, web development, big data and BI, blockchain development, IoT development, mobile app development, web designing (UI/UX), etc. The company was founded in 2011, with headquarters in Vienna, Austria, and other offices in the USA, Denmark, Poland, and Lithuania. They possess a dedicated team for end-to-end development services, including cloud computing, data migration, and DWH development. DICEUS’s highly experienced engineers have completed more than 150 projects successfully. The team focuses on improving its skills and expertise due to the global demand for digital transformation. The company’s mission is to provide unique and effective services that differentiate it from its competitors. They are committed to helping their clients by turning ideas into reality and creating unmatched success. Thus, DICEUS has achieved a prominent position in the list of top software development companies in Poland by GoodFirms. The GoodFirms team interviewed Illia Pinchuk, CEO of DICEUS, to learn more about the company and its values. The sky’s the limit Illia Pinchuk began by telling the story behind the DICEUS foundation. He founded the company to provide top-notch software solutions for businesses across the globe. Many businesses required an ultimate digital transformation for maximum growth, and their dedicated development team handled various eCommerce projects, which allowed them to become a wholly developed company. Moreover, he said the company had expanded its business by offering services to different verticals in different parts of the world, including Ukraine, Denmark, Lithuania, the USA, and the UAE. They have achieved rapid growth in the IT sector with considerable client trust and confidence through an ambitious approach. They believe in business values that benefit the whole of humankind. DICEUS is ISO certified Pinch and spread for zoom Teamwork makes the dream work Illia Pinchuk mentioned that the company works according to an IT outsourcing model that provides clients with dedicated teams of highly skilled professionals who comprehend their business requirements and achieve desirable outcomes. They have expertise in developing customized software solutions and completing product development projects within the timeline asked by their clients. DICEUS team Pinch and spread for zoom Worth its weight in gold Illia Pinchuk spoke about their competitive abilities in the market; DICEUS delivers outstanding products with outstaffing and outsourcing services with solid values, including the following: Quality is the priority Business flexibility On-time project delivery Transparent communications Comprehensive approach Highly experienced developers Dedicated account managers Business acumen Read more: Why do developers need a Project Manager? He added that the company offers dedicated Project Managers. Hiring IT staff or a dedicated team with a PM gives a variety of added values to customers. PMs are responsible for onboarding new team members, communicating project goals to the team, speeding the process when a quick scale-up is needed, etc. DICEUS experts highly recommend having a PM for smooth operations and stress-free project execution. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Here’s what customers say about DICEUS DICEUS client feedback Pinch and spread for zoom CTO at Swap.app says: “In the beginning, I only asked for their assistance with design. I liked what they made so I asked them to assist with the development as well. Now, they’re doing the back and frontend for the application and the platform, the admin system. For the backend, they used .NET and an Azure product. For the frontend, we’re going to use Xamarin. They’re doing a cross-platform for Android and iOS. The project is almost done. We’re doing the minimum viable product right now.” DICEUS top-rated customer review Pinch and spread for zoom Co-founder at Build-A-Brand says: “Simply put, these guys are fantastic. They are truly a part of my company and I couldn’t be happier with our partnership. We started with a small project and have grown into 8 full-time employees (Dev, Design, Testing, PM) over the last 2 years. I have challenged them with business concepts and they have delivered and when I ask the impossible, they research and find out how to do it. We work together daily, using an Agile approach, and have created what i think is a world-class software package. There are no shortages of new ideas, so we will continue to bring new business ideas to life for years to come.” Click for more reviews . DICEUS customers Pinch and spread for zoom Industry coverage DICEUS CEO shared that their offer is unique to many industries, including insurance, banking, fintech, healthcare, retail, and logistics. For example, for the insurance sector, DICEUS experts develop digital channels like custom mobile apps, web portals, and chatbots, focusing on user experience as UX is one of the most critical factors to consider for developing successful digital products. DICEUS’ core services The company’s core services are as follows: Custom software development IT staff augmentation services Web app development Mobile app development UI/UX design Software testing DevOps services Data migration DWH development IT services quote Pinch and spread for zoom Reliable, flexible, and affordable payment structures Pinchuk reveals their pricing models, including Dedicated Team and Time & Material. These models suit the project’s flexible scopes and iterative processes. He added that the minimum budget is $10,000 for an Ideal Customer Profile (ICP) in the outsourcing project. They provide a rate card that allows clients to see how much the cost of a developer is for an hour. With the card, customers identify the seniority level with the developers’ relevant skills, expertise, and experience. When asked about DICEUS’ 2021 price budget, Pinchuk said those projects were large and in scope; it is hard to disclose the price range. Lastly, Pinchuk beams on the company’s coming ten years’ plans; their focus will remain the same, delivering top-notch software solutions and providing impeccable values to their customers worldwide. Project budget Pinch and spread for zoom The detailed interview is available on GoodFirms. About GoodFirms Washington, D.C.-based GoodFirms is an innovative B2B Research and Reviews Company that extensively combes the market to find business services agencies amongst many other technology firms that offer the best services to their customers. GoodFirms’ extensive research process ranks the companies, boosts their online reputation, and helps service seekers pick the right technology partner that meets their business needs. About the Author As a Content Writer at GoodFirms, Anna Stark bridges the gap between service seekers and providers. Anna’s dominant role is to figure out company achievements and critical attributes and put them into words. She strongly believes in the charm of words and leverages new approaches that work, including new concepts that enhance the firm’s identity. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents The sky's the limit Teamwork makes the dream work Worth its weight in gold Here's what customers say about DICEUS Industry coverage DICEUS’ core services Reliable, flexible, and affordable payment structures Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles Insurance 1 min. read · 29 Jun 2026 30 Jun 2026 DICEUS CEO Illia Pinchuk joined Insurance Nerds' Profiles in Risk podcast Insurance 1 min. read · 16 Jul 2026 03 Aug 2026 DICEUS CEO Illia Pinchuk on the Insurtech Leadership Podcast 1 min. read · 30 Sep 2026 30 Sep 2026 DICEUS CEO Illia Pinchuk on the RiskCellar podcast Insurance 1 min. read · 08 Jul 2026 08 Jul 2026 Illia Pinchuk on the Killing Commercial Insurance podcast 10 min. read · 27 May 2024 21 Nov 2024 What is onsite and offshore model? Hybrid delivery models 12 min. read · 26 Sep 2024 02 Sep 2026 ERP implementation life cycle: Main frameworks and phases All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman