Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Retail · 14 min. read · 6553 reads · 19 May 2026 19 May 2026 How to improve inventory management: 6 best practices The inventory management landscape has changed significantly. According to Fortune Business Insights, as of 2025, the global market of inventory management software was forecasted to be valued at approximately $2.75 billion in 2026. AI-powered solutions, predictive systems, and real-time analytics are no longer optional tools. Modern businesses go to any lengths not only to keep their nose above water but to expand and flourish as far as it is possible in the context of pervasive globalization and the post-COVID next normal. They try to reach out to the maximum number of consumers, hold robust marketing campaigns, advertise through multiple channels, conduct training and workshops to enhance personnel productivity, and cut down on needless expenditures. Among all mission-critical measures aimed at boosting the company’s efficiency, there is one that competent CEOs have no right to neglect. We are talking about improving inventory management. In this article, you will learn how to improve inventory management, including some recommendations on software solutions. Inventory management: What is it? Conventionally, when we hear the word “inventory,” we imagine a warehouse where an enterprise keeps the products it manufactured to be further sold wholesale or retail and delivered to end consumers or vendors who will speed them as middlemen on the way to customers. Being true as a general picture, this vision lacks a number of details, though. For once, inventory may contain some intangible goods your company produces (for instance, software) and is thus found only in virtual depots. Then, the imaginary warehouse may contain not only items ready for sale. Its shelves can house raw materials that you bought to make the production of your organization, unfinished goods that are halfway through the process of manufacture, or maintenance, repair, and operating goods (aka MRO (maintenance, repair, and operation items) that are necessary to keep the production routine going. Besides, many enterprises have an emergency stock meant to stand them in good stead in case of unexpected demand spikes or temporary supply chain suspensions. improving inventory management Pinch and spread for zoom What are the major problems inventory can run into? The first is overstocking. If you have produced more items than clients need, you will require additional storage space to accommodate them and defray related expenses. In case the goods are perishable items (like foodstuffs or flowers), you can lose a fair share of them if the warehouse conditions are inadequate for prolonged storage. The same is true about raw materials that you can’t process within a short time. The second is the opposite – understocking. You have miscalculated the produce for further delivery and have nothing to offer to the disgruntled customers fuming at your front door and having much to say about your company’s reliability as a business partner. This underestimation may relate to raw materials or MRO goods. Then, instead of disappointed customers, you will have a bunch of annoyed employees whose regular workflow meets a hiatus. Both problems grow exponentially as the size of your organization increases and spell not only financial losses but also tons of wasted labor that has to be directed to get the company out of the mess. Inventory control management can help you avoid such emergencies. It includes a set of procedures that enable you to take care of your inventory and ensure an uninterrupted flow of goods. By the book, it should cover all essential stages of inventory handling. Stages of inventory management Purchasing. You must keep track of the inflow of raw materials for your products or items you will further sell. Manufacturing. This is about the quantity of products your organization has made (irrelevant for companies involved only in sales). Storing. This is the pivotal phase of inventory management that is responsible for hoarding raw materials and finished items. Sales. This is when the products change hands, and the seller gets payment for them. Reporting. At this stage, the dossiers on the amounts of sales and payments are compiled and processed. In addition to tracking the current inventory flow, the best ways to manage inventory include forecasting demand so that you know what customers want. Alongside inventory management, there is one more term – inventory control. It has a narrower meaning and applies only to the storing phase of inventory handling, leaving purchasing, manufacturing, selling, and reporting tasks out of its ken. The success of the inventory control policy depends on the accountability of your stocks. The employees responsible for it should have all related data at their fingertips. So, they will know how much stock is available, where it is kept, and what the state of it is. Whether it is inventory control only or the entire system of inventory management, both of them need constant care to reinforce their efficiency. Companies that do report over 75% revenue growth, a two-thirds profit margin increase, and a 61% rise in customer loyalty. Given such numbers, it is wise to take a closer look at how businesses augment their inventory management techniques. Build a custom retail app with DICEUS 6 ways to improve your inventory management Here are some inventory management best practices retail and wholesale ventures use to take it to a new level. Way 1 – Understand your supply chain Before a certain item appears on the shelves of your warehouse, it goes through a number of steps. First, you should order it, and the supplier is to affirm they have the product in the necessary quantity. Then, you pay the total price or an advance sum for it. Then, you wait for the goods. When they arrive, they are registered in the inventory logs. If any cog of this well-geared mechanism stops spinning, the whole chain is in trouble. Of course, you can’t predict all pitfalls that can waylay your product end route. But clearly envisaging the product’s progress is what you need to figure out likely bottlenecks and cushion possible blows, minimizing risks. In 2026, this also means mapping digital dependencies, including supplier portals, Electronic Document Interchange (EDI) integrations, and third-party logistics platforms that can disrupt the chain just as much as a physical delay. Way 2 – Establish safety stock and minimum stock levels The crucial question that all employees dealing with inventory management confront is, “How much is enough?” Often, it is a ticklish business to balance between the risks of running out of stock and the equally unpleasant prospect of unsold items taking storage room and gathering dust on the warehouse shelf. To address the problem, you should figure out and closely watch safety stock and minimum stock indices. The former is the additional number of items you need to be on the safe side. The latter is also known as the reorder point formula, which will enable you to order and receive a new batch before the current one is depleted. It should take into account both the quantity of remaining items and the time needed to replenish the existing inventory. Way 3 – Get to grips with bulk shipment and EOQ Both methods can optimize delivery costs. Bulk shipment presupposes palletizing items so that carriers can transport greater quantities in one go. EOQ stands for economic order quantity, and it determines an ideal number of items per order. This number depends on the overall cost of production, shipment distance, demand rate, and several other variables. Way 4 – Keep shrinkage low While your goods are in the warehouse, a certain part of them might get damaged, lost, broken, or even stolen. Yet, personnel typically forget or neglect to introduce respective corrections to the inventory log, so the actual number of available items is lower than the register claims. As a result, the identification of minimum stock level is at fault, causing reverberation across the supply chain. Dispose of such ghost items – both physically and in the records. Way 5 – Get rid of slow-moving inventory Some of the products sit on the shelves for ages, sometimes without any hope of ever moving out. It ties up your finances, which you can spend elsewhere, and eats up your storage space, increasing the expenditure list. Try to go through the lists of such products and clear out the flotsam and jetsam. In 2026, AI-powered analytics platforms make it easier than ever to detect at-risk items before they become worthless and act through dynamic pricing, bundling, donation programs, or liquidation partnerships. Way 6 – Use AI-powered inventory management software The shift to intelligent, predictive inventory solutions is already underway: it is expected that over 75% of enterprises will integrate AI-powered solutions into their inventory processes by the end of 2026. Real-time tracking, demand forecasting, automated reorder triggers, and exception alerts are becoming standard expectations. Please learn more about our expertise in the retail industry . Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Must-have features of inventory management software Having profound expertise in developing business software , we think that top-notch inventory management software should have the following features and modules. inventory management software features Pinch and spread for zoom Inventory management. This is the central element of the whole system to keep all related details and processes in sync. It enables measurement and categorization of the available products, contains data on their history, issues automated shortage alerts, streamlines vendor management, and does a slew of other bread-and-butter things necessary for seamless inventory management. Tagging and barcoding. This module is about eliminating human errors that crop up when users enter product data manually. By scanning barcodes and sending the product data into the system, the module allows you to obtain accurate information on the products and discover their placement in a split second. Inventory tracking. Alongside barcodes, the information provided by RFID and asset serial numbers is instrumental in tracking all inventory movements in real-time. Inventory forecasting. This feature lets businesses forestall running out of stock and thus serves as a powerful customer satisfaction booster. Inventory alerts. Any changes in the status of every single inventory item are reported to the personnel. They should know about products that came in or went out, the state of shipment, or problems that occurred. All of these enhance operational control and augment the round-the-clock visibility of inventory items. Inventory backups and security. All the data that enters the system should be provided with a reliable backup copy and secured from unauthorized penetration attempts or possible leakages. Returns handling. If you are a middle-size or large business, the number of returns tends to be quite serious. This module helps streamline their handling by automatically confirming or canceling returns, assigning them to a certain warehouse, and tagging them with a pick-up date. Besides, the indicated reason for return is to condition the decision whether it should be refunded or replaced. Mobile-friendliness. When the whole world has gone mobile, it is important for inventory management software to be reachable from mobile gadgets. So, stakeholders can exercise control of inventory even if they are out of the office. As soon as you realize the software of your choice has all these functionalities, you should implement it properly. Experiencing a lack of technical expertise and skills? Connect with a professional team to address your project challenges. Contact us Inventory management software implementation: An algorithm to follow To make the most of any new software (and inventory management software is no exception), you should approach its implementation carefully following the suggested procedure. Step 1. Appoint the team in charge Any innovation should have the ultimate superuser who would accept total responsibility for communicating with all departments, arranging training for employees, motivating stakeholders to adopt the novel know-how, and performing general supervision of the process. Plus, there should be an implementation crew consisting of the project manager, inventory planners, production planning managers, and IT guys. The superuser will coordinate and control their activities. Step 2. Draw up a detailed roadmap Any large-scale endeavor is doomed to defeat if it is not meticulously thought out and planned. The implementation strategy should include objectives, roles, stakeholders, outcomes, and instruments of control. One more vital element of it is a post-project analysis that will assess the quality of implementation and viability of the new system. Step 3. Get your data ready This step is going to take you the longest time. First, you should collect all information on available stock, purchase orders, minimum order quantities (MOQ), bills of materials, lead times, and other related workflow indices (typically from your company’s ERP ). Then, you should check this data to see whether it is valid and accurate with up-to-date numbers and active links. Step 4. Prepare and train the personnel It is not only about teaching your staff to work with the new software, allowing for some learning curve, and retraining employees from time to time once new team members are onboarded, or software is updated to acquire new functionalities. It is also about creating a comprehensive buy-in among all stakeholders who should realize the perks of adopting disruptive technology. A surefire recipe to attract users is to build a specialized communication channel that would keep people abreast of the nitty-gritty of inventory software usage and encourage them to ask questions if they encounter some problems. Step 5. Launch the acquired software Now you can kick the system into action. However, before you do, make sure your inventory management software meets all your requirements and needs. As a rule, it seldom happens with boxed solutions that suit all and sundry and end up as a perfect fit for no one. DICEUS is ready to create an affordable custom inventory management tool that would cater to all your demands, tastes, and even whims because it will contain only the modules that you will commission with no extra elements you will never use but would pay for if it were a canned solution. Inventory management is an onerous ordeal that grows harder to handle together with the expansion of your business. By heeding the life hacks we offer and implementing high-end inventory management software, you will turn it into a no-sweat routine that will bolster the workflow efficiency of your company and save you a pretty penny. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing To sum it up Inventory management is a burdensome process that becomes harder as your business grows. The good news is that the solutions available in 2026 make well-structured, intelligent inventory control more achievable than ever before. AI predictions, real-time monitoring, and automated reordering platforms have shifted from competitive advantage to operational standards. Organizations that have not yet made the change are feeling the cost. The recommendation mentioned in this article – understanding your supply chain process, keeping safety stock levels, applying Economic Order Quality (EOQ), decreasing shrinkage, clearing slow-moving stock, and implementing the right software products – are all interconnected practices. A well-designed software product makes all 5 operational practices easier to execute consistently. If your current software is holding back your ability to act on inventory data in real time, it is worth taking a hard look at what a custom-built solution could do for your workflows. DICEUS develops custom inventory management software tailored to exactly the modules and workflows you require. Contact us to discuss your requirements. FAQ How to improve the inventory management process with the help of software? Enhancing an inventory management workflow with software brings lots of advantages. Firstly, you will be able to automate tracking, order processing, and reporting. Secondly, you will gain instant visibility into inventory levels, demand, and sales, enabling quicker decision-making. Accurate forecasting capabilities provided by specialized software will help you optimize stock levels and reduce overstocking and understocking. Ultimately, you will be able to generate reports for insights into performance and areas for improvement, making your inventory management more efficient and cost-effective. How is inventory optimization used to improve efficiency in supply chain management? Inventory optimization improves supply chain efficiency by ensuring the right inventory levels are maintained. This minimizes overstocking and understocking, reducing carrying costs and stockouts. It leads to better order fulfillment, lower storage expenses, and improved cash flow, ultimately enhancing overall supply chain performance. How to improve the management of suppliers to enable reliable inventory? To improve supplier management for reliable inventory, you should cultivate strong, transparent relationships with suppliers, set quality standards and conduct regular updates, establish KPIs to track supplier performance, etc. A custom inventory management software solution can also help you monitor your suppliers’ performance, collaborate on forecasting and planning, communicate, and do lots of other things. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Inventory management: What is it? What are the major problems inventory can run into? 6 ways to improve your inventory management Must-have features of inventory management software Inventory management software implementation: An algorithm to follow To sum it up FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles AI 16 min. read · 19 Aug 2025 04 Sep 2026 Generative AI strategy: Best practices to implement Insurance 18 min. read · 18 Jan 2024 28 Jan 2026 How to improve customer engagement for insurance companies 15 min. read · 28 Apr 2025 28 Apr 2025 Digital transformation consulting: How it can improve your business Insurance 14 min. read · 25 Jan 2024 23 Sep 2026 How to improve customer experience in the insurance industry Banking 17 min. read · 11 May 2026 16 Jul 2026 Best banking software 2026 AI 11 min. read · 01 May 2025 01 May 2025 Best AI consulting companies in 2025 All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman