Online car auction system Services provided Software architecture UI/UX design Web app development Custom software development System integration Expertise used BI and reporting Cloud solutions Data warehouse and ETL Industry Automotive E-Commerce Project overview Lion Trans Car Auction is a web platform that let users to buy and sell vehicles. It’s just as a traditional auction but digital. People and businesses can list their cars and review other lots, check extensive data, make bids. The system comes with a verification system that eliminates fraud possibility. Client Lion Trans Team 5 members Country Georgia Duration 12 months Client information Lion Trans is the group of international transportation companies established in 2008. It works in Armenia, Canada, Georgia, the USA, and Ukraine. It handles intercontinental transportation, warehousing services, vehicle auction transaction support (from the US auctions), document support, partial or full credit financing. Lion Trans has warehouses in Canada and the USA, so it can deliver cargo by sea, air, and land. Business challenge Lion Trans is a multinational company with partners in different regions. The core warehouses are in North America. In addition, the company has subsidiaries in Europe and Asia. Our client – Lion Trans Georgia – has rich experience in car shipping. To expand the range of services, the brand decided to launch an auction system. This online portal had to improve user experience, attract buyers and sellers. Technical challenges The whole auction process was highly complex, based on comprehensive interactions between end-users and the software solution. We had to digitalize the process of traditional auctions, ensure that key functions work seamlessly: offers, orders, cancellations. According to analysis, .NET was the most suitable option, and Lion Trans representatives agreed with it. We had to build a cloud client-side solution, as well as a back-office administration system for the company. Solution delivered As a result, the user-side application supports personal accounts, lots, search, the auction system itself, and integrated payments. Individuals, insurance teams, car dealers, car rental services are among key clients. They can review proposals, make and check bids, review information about cars. The admin-side app supports data management. Dedicated employees can review information about users, lots, and the system. Administrators also verify lots. This approach improves security, helps to combat fraudulent offers. Information is stored in the database while all parts are interconnected. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features A dedicated management module Lion Trans managers use it to verify lots, manage users, and monitor auctions. Approvals and withdrawals for sellers These users can list their offers, see history of bids, accept them, withdraw money, and communicate with support. Bids and filters for buyers These clients have access to the search system, can make bids, buy cars, and explore information. Comprehensive history data History of bids and lots is available to all types of users, as well as administrators. Detailed info about cars Each lot comes with extensive info: tech details, photos, certificates, statistics. Personal and business profiles Customers can register as individual users or as insurance, dealership, and rental businesses. Value to our client All features of traditional auctions like lots, bids, and vehicle presentations. Online solution that expands client services in addition to transportation. Transparent collaboration with client from our side, extensive info and support. .NET suggested by our team after detailed analysis and requirements specification. Our tech stack .NET/ASP.NET .NET Core Vue.js C# SendGrid SSO Microsoft Azure Cloud Client feedback The quality of the finished portal functions is excellent. DICEUS provides expert development services at a reasonable cost. They deliver their work in a timely manner. Customers can expect a communicative and proactive team. Alexander Baravkov Product Manager of Lion Trans in Georgia Our other cases Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Logistics A fleet management application for soldier trucking Logistics A blockchain solution for Vlantana Retail E-commerce migration from Hybris to Magento 2 for Palmers Textil Automotive Enterprise resource planning tool for a transport company Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman