Ecommerce app development services DICEUS provides ecommerce app development services delivering innovative custom mobile apps, POS solutions, payment gateways, and many more. Send requirements Today, online stores account for a fifth of all retail purchases, and this number is likely to increase exponentially within the foreseeable future. For internet-driven retail companies and digital marketplace owners with big-time aspirations, having a web app as a single platform for marketing their products is not enough since 57% of online shopping is conducted via mobile devices. Ecommerce mobile app development services aim to provide online entrepreneurs with a unified platform that can be accessed from their smartphones. Consumers can go from browsing the product catalog to getting the merchandise they have ordered, receiving seamless shopping experiences at each stage of their customer journey. Our ecommerce app development services Robust ecommerce apps we craft enable online business owners to control and manage all pipeline operations of their e-store (order management, payment processing, shipping, and more), ensuring their clientele gets maximum customer satisfaction from interacting with the brand. Point of sales Regarding expertise-infused ecommerce application development services we provide at DICEUS, we can create a secure, reliable, and convenient point-of-sales solution for your ecommerce business. Whether you already have an up-and-running store or are just looking to build a new ecommerce, we have a pool of seasoned specialists who will implement a sturdy piece of software that fits your goals and requirements perfectly and runs on the market-defining practices and approaches. Mobile apps Mobile commerce is brimming with demand and offers a huge chunk of the customer audience you should cover if you haven’t already. We are your trusty ecommerce application development company for building customized commercial mobile applications that satisfy both end users and your managers with performance, stand out among the market competition and bring streamlined regular profits. On-demand apps Are you looking to build a more extensive SaaS product to distribute on-demand? We can help you with that as well. We have staff and outsource professionals specializing in the major SaaS development platforms who are savvy and experienced in creating new solutions or turning your existing software into a software-as-a-service solution. At that, they will point out the most efficient optimization methods and recommend the best ways of enabling SaaS subscription functionality for your particular project and store. Payment gateway Our ecommerce app development services also include the custom creation of separate modules, plugins, and add-ons, including sturdy, highly protected payment gateways that can be easily integrated with any ecommerce store or resources where online payments are meant to be made. We integrate market-leading ready-made solutions or create gateways from the ground up according to your specific type of ecommerce software. For example, developing a custom plugin will be an excellent solution for an exclusive goods store. Loyalty solutions In the conditions of the cut-throat competition existing in the e-commerce niche, customer loyalty is mission-critical. Our vetted ecommerce app developers equip their products with high-end tools that can encourage your clientele to stay with your brand indefinitely. Some of these instruments leverage customer data and granular clientele segmentation to provide personalized experiences. In contrast, others focus on remunerating users to buy from you (reward programs, loyalty schemes, social media engagement, and the like). An advanced variety of loyalty tools involves your customers in referral programs, turning them into brand advocates and promoters. Catalogs and showrooms Catalog management capability is vital for ecommerce platforms. It allows entrepreneurs to control inventory in real-time, update pricing, and process orders. Consumers stand to benefit, too, because they can smoothly navigate product pages, create wishlists, read and leave feedback in the review system, choose the product according to certain parameters, and close the transaction via a foolproof checkout functionality. In our e-commerce app development projects, we provide an option to craft a virtual showroom that ensures enhanced visibility of goods. There, e-store visitors can interact with items, experience their attributes and features, and examine how they look and feel inside and outside. Such immersive shopping experiences are important when buying electronics, clothes, footwear, accessories, vehicles, groceries, and more. ecommerce application development 1 Pinch and spread for zoom ecommerce application development 2 Pinch and spread for zoom Let’s discuss your project needs! Send request Benefits of custom ecommerce apps Real-time monitoring Implementing a custom ecommerce application via our ecommerce app development powers, you get a solution tailored specifically to your needs and goals that also features a set of management tools that make the regular software performance transparent and fully controllable. You can monitor the state of the app and metrics like the flow of traffic, the number of transactions via an elaborate dashboard. This data can be leveraged for further analysis and subsequent app optimization based on specific readings. Advanced UX and UI With a custom approach, we can design a truly original, authentic piece of ecommerce software brimming with standing-out interface elements, visual features, and corporate attributes. We can also go deeper than any other readymade ecommerce platform and achieve the highest level of user experience by analyzing specific needs, desires, and behavioral patterns of your target audience of customers. Going for a custom-made application, you are looking to get a unique product that will be innovative to the market. Multiple features We professionally handle ecommerce mobile app development for simple one-page stores and large, complex online marketplaces alike. For any type of ecommerce, our specialists point out the most relevant and individually efficient sets of features. Having outlined that, we implement and integrate these features seamlessly, making your software product versatile, multipurpose, and utterly convenient to navigate and shop through. Understanding the latest industry trends, we know how to impress and satisfy modern mobile and online shoppers. Further integration We offer full-cycle ecommerce mobile app development project implementation spanning all of the essential stages and helping you handle all the post-launch efforts. Once we complete a new ecommerce software solution tailored just for you, we can help you integrate it with bigger systems or compatible platforms and properly deploy it in the required operational environment. We will support further integration to help you avoid common risks and pitfalls at these finalizing stages of the project. Essential features for an ecommerce app The capabilities of a perfect ecommerce mobile application should drive conversions, ensure high traffic for its owner, and help its users obtain a smooth shopping experience. To reach these goals, a first-rate ecommerce app should contain the following features. Foolproof registration. By making it hassle-free and fast, you will streamline the onboarding of new customers and encourage them to cooperate with your brand. The procedure should include a minimal number of steps and provide the possibility of using personal email or social media accounts for registration. Advanced search. This is the core of the app, allowing users to find what they have come for among thousands of products by leveraging filtering and sorting options. Product descriptions. Shoppers must know the characteristics of the product inside out, so you should provide concise but detailed descriptions of items and their features to minimize merchandise returns and related refund fuss. Gallery. By filling it with high-resolution 360-degree images and videos of your products, you will provide a comprehensive view of them, thus revealing all their sides, reducing hesitations, and facilitating purchases. Item availability. Nothing is more discouraging for shoppers than ordering something and being told that the item is out of stock. The real-time item availability feature displays the stock status of the product and offers e-store visitors an update when the sought-after thing has arrived, keeping people engaged. Product ratings and reviews. This is the chief decision-making assistant for most consumers. Reading through the feedback of people who have used the product can be a tipping point in their choice. And the ability to leave a review fosters a feeling of involvement and affinity with the global customer community. Wishlists. This section (especially useful in aggregator apps) enables people to return to the items they have already viewed and look at them again with new eyes, gently pushing them toward a purchasing decision. One-click purchase. Multi-step checkout procedures are a surefire recipe for losing a customer. By enabling purchase in a single click, you will reduce the time and effort associated with closing a deal and provide the ultimate shopping experience for the clientele. Secure payment gateways. You should offer consumers a variety of payment alternatives (debit and credit cards, mobile wallets, online transfers, perhaps even cryptocurrency), all of which are safe and reliable. Detailed order summary. It should contain the item description, price, discounts (if any), shipment cost, and the total sum. By displaying this information, you will achieve complete purchase procedure transparency and enhance customer trust. Shipping status. This is one more operational transparency tool. No matter where your customer hails from (the Americas, Europe, Asia, the Middle East), they must be able to monitor the progress of the merchandise in real-time, from order confirmation to delivery via shipping status updates. Intuitive returns. People must understand the algorithm of their actions in case they want to return the item they have purchased. To ensure this, the app should provide clear instructions, easy-to-fill-out forms, and immediate return request confirmation. Customer service access. If people have problems with the product or questions concerning its functioning, they should be able to communicate directly with the support staff (via phone, email, or live chat) or use self-help means (an AI-powered chatbot, a customer portal, or an FAQ list). Loyalty programs. Offering regular customer discounts, points, gifts, and other perks helps retain the clientele and transform one-time buyers into loyal brand advocates. You can also offer them exclusive membership options and unique benefits (like pre-launch access to new products), motivating people to stay with you and keep coming back for more. Our ecommerce application development process To build apps that satisfy both their owners and consumers, we at DICEUS have a well-defined process for their implementation in place. Business analysis Every project we take up is kicked off with an individual business analysis that helps research your business more in-depth and better point out the essential goals, collaboration workflow format, and other project specifics. In a major way, the preliminary analysis also helps to outline the most efficient and potentially profitable directions of implementing a certain ecommerce solution — niche trends and target audience nuances can help create the highly demanded product with a satisfying TA-focused user experience. UI/UX design For ecommerce mobile apps, UI/UX design is of paramount importance. Realizing this simple truth, our seasoned designers go to all lengths to provide usability, accessibility, desirability, and consistency of the solution. Also, they ensure the UI is straightforward, intuitive, and uncluttered, where all visual elements (search bars, buttons, tags, sliders, toggle switches) and texts are easy to read and interact with considering the small screen size of smartphones in comparison with desktops or laptops. Development This is the longest stage to complete. First, experienced software engineers create a basic solution architecture — sort of a “carcass” of the future app. This skeleton is then passed on to developers who, using the Agile development approach, add some software “meat” to it. They implement the required features, make proper integrations, and set the whole functionality in motion. The first tangible product that reaches completion is a prototype, which is then amplified to obtain a minimum viable product. Testing and UAT At the point where we have a running piece of software, we initiate multiple testing cycles to identify any errors and bugs appearing in the running infrastructure and polish up the software performance up to the fail-proof operation. For this, we employ several formats of testing, including traditional manual and automated testing cycles along with User Acceptance Testing where real users try out different aspects of your ecommerce application and leave feedback, based on which further optimizations are implemented. Deployment and launch With the software up and running and polished to a seamless, bug-free, high-performance state, we can finally deploy it in the proper operational environment and launch it among end users. At these stages, we implement the most fitting deployment models based on the target platform/store/resource/etc. and kick off the technical support and maintenance for your app’s full-on field performance. Facts about us 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements What impacts your project duration Timelines for different projects vary greatly based on different levels of complexity and other specifics. These are the major factors influencing the total duration of your project. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Data availability and quality What affects your project costs The total cost of every other project can also be calculated based on particular specifics. However, here are the basic pricing factors we can highlight. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team The level of customization What we need from your side DICEUS is an established ecommerce app development company with a well-adjusted workflow and guaranteed high-quality results. The only essential things we require from you to start an efficient project include the following. Project goals, vision, and roadmap, if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation, if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Our tech stack Explore our ecommerce app development case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case What our customers say about us Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What are the key challenges of ecommerce app development projects? The major challenge of creating and implementing every other e-commerce app for many companies is achieving a clear understanding of the client’s needs and desires. Some companies also lack the tech stack items needed to implement highly versatile products. To avoid these, hire an established e-commerce mobile app development company like DICEUS. How to find a trusted and experienced ecommerce app development company? Nothing can tell you more about the expertise and experience of a particular ecommerce software provider than their previous projects and the client’s level of satisfaction with them. You can usually check reviews and review the portfolio on the company’s official website. Established providers also have certifications, partnerships with renowned brands, and dedicated blogs. Why custom ecommerce app development is better than a ready-made solution? A custom application is tailored closely to your specific requirements and desires, giving you space for original thought and infusion of exclusivity into the design of your final solution. Thus, you can create an authentic product brimming with your unique corporate attributes that will most favorably represent your brand. In comparison, readymade solutions are bland and generic. Similar industry Retail Logistics Fintech Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman