UI/UX design and consulting agency Get a free UI/UX consultation What we offer UI/UX design services include two critical aspects: user interface and user experience. The user interface or UI is all about the visual look of your application or website. All your customers interact with the same interface that acts as a bridge between people and your services. Users interact with the software through interfaces, so it’s essential to make everything beautiful, clean, simple, and understandable. Our UI/UX design studio knows how to create cool interfaces. User experience is a more comprehensive term that includes UI. It focuses on general interactions, ways in which customers access your solutions, move through them. Robust UX design helps you to guide users, ensure that they can find what they need quickly and smoothly. UX things are unique for each user. Hence, you want to keep experience responsive and personalized. Overall, our UI/UX design company often combines these two parts as they’re highly interconnected. You can get various tasks completed by our team of professional designers in this area: AR/VR design Graphic design and branding Human-machine interfaces UI/UX consulting UI/UX for cross-platform solutions UI/UX for mobile apps UI/UX for websites UI/UX redesign and optimization There’s only one chance to make a first impression. And you will need flawless UX design services to attract a user. From simple mobile applications to comprehensive enterprise banking platforms, all digital solutions require solid and user-friendly interfaces to ensure user satisfaction. Our UX design company handles both separate projects and parts of broader offerings, combined with software development, optimization, or migration. With us, you get tailored, responsive designs that meet your business goals and boost customer loyalty. DICEUS isn’t only a UI/UX design agency but a trustworthy partner for your digital transformation. So don’t hesitate to ask us about the services and processes you’re interested in. Get a free UI/UX consultation UI/UX design services Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits from UI/UX design agency Professional consulting and all other UI/UX design services can change the game for your brand. Being the main connector between customers and business offers, design defines how people will perceive you. Provide a clear interface with simple user journeys, and you will attract and retain customers much more efficiently. Other benefits provided by a sophisticated UI/UX design agency include: Perfect personalization Thanks to tailored designs, you show your commitment to all clients. We develop interfaces for various users, including people with disabilities. Reduced risk of failure With initial research from a UX design company, you can test user flows and features without investing a lot of money or time. Stand out from the crowd Good solutions engage and convert. What’s more important, users remember them and, respectively, your brand. Ultimate acquisition and retention People appreciate predictive and user-centered solutions. It’s simpler to understand your audience thanks to our UI/UX design studio. Our custom UI/UX design and consulting In UI design services, we apply our core standard-driven lifecycle. The service itself is close to the business analysis stage with requirements elicitation, interviewing, and understanding needs. Often, it’s a part of a larger general development flow. However, by ordering our UI/UX consulting and other offerings, you always get similar time-proven approaches even at smaller scales. We move through core stages to provide the best results. Discovery phase Discovery is a preliminary phase in the UX design process that involves researching the scope and problems. The very first step is to define your requirements and the purpose of your project. Various types of stakeholders’ interviews allow our UI design company to get all the necessary information to start working. Here, we analyze the key business objectives of the organization, individuals, or teams. Another area of analysis is data and insights about how problems affect users, as well as the solutions users have already tried. Documentation After defining needs and goals, we start transferring received business and technical requirements into a future product. Thus, you get user stories, user personas, and storyboards that help to understand user experience better and align it with the products/services. Such boards are available for each use case, so you can be sure of user-centered design. At this stage, the main goal is to finalize future views of how the product will work and describe all the related processes. UX stage – functionality The next step is to provide actual UI design services. Firstly, we create specific blueprints or skeletons of your solution: UI/UX wireframes. These screens include simple blocks without graphics. They help to combine all elements to show basic structures. As well, you can get design prototypes through an additional stage. Prototypes are simulations of real products, they show how a site or an app works, how the final design flows. UI design – visuals Further, we add visual elements and interactions to wireframes. At this stage, you can get UI design mockups with fonts, styles, and corporate identity to check how your solution will look and feel for users. Also, we apply animation to interface to make the product stand out as much as possible and improve the products’ usability within the animation. After all visuals are approved, we collect all of them in the UI Kit – UX/UI document that describes all contents of the system, their style, and behavior. This document allows us to transfer designs for further development faster and easier. Testing You can request any changes or updates to the presented UI/UX design prototypes and mockups. The testing stage continues until no further user experience issues can be identified. At this stage, our UI design company controls that main usability heuristics are counted (for instance, consistency, system status visibility, error prevention). The same is true for user testing. In addition, depending on the needs, we can count ROI (return on investment). This is about the balance of the income (return) and economy (investment). Positive ROI gives you a green signal to grow. Support and changes After all wireframes, mockups, and prototypes are approved, you can get your UI/UX solutions. We hand over all pages and screens with the required elements to our expert frontend developers. They ensure that everything looks exactly as designed. In addition, we can prepare UI Kits for you, so you can get all the elements in addition to the ready interface. With us, you get proactive support at all stages, including coding and deployment of the ready designs or interfaces. We’re ready to fix things, handle the next UI/UX consulting stages, and make UI/UX solutions even better. Get a free UI/UX consultation What impacts your project duration Initial UI/UX versions’ development can take from a few days. The exact schedule depends on a few core factors: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition The available technologies and platforms The need for your own UI Kit What affects your project costs As with any process, it’s not simple to estimate exact costs without specific business requirements. Basically, expenses depend on the next factors. Project scope and complexity The chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team The number of mockups and prototypes required What we need from your side As with any cooperation-based service, UI/UX consulting, design, and implementation requires certain effort from your side. To reach the best results and meet your business goals, we need you to share: Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, e.g., software architecture and mockups A couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions Project deadlines Our tech stack Get a free UI/UX consultation Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Frequently asked questions Who is a UX consultant? A consultant is a person who cares about the initial research for further UI/UX projects. He or she analyzes your product and/or requirements and identifies the best ways to design everything. Without consulting, it’s barely possible to deliver viable designs. Is a UX design oversaturated? Nowadays, the UI/UX field sees many new faces. People are entering it because they love design, think that it’s an interesting sector, and see its potential. However, when it comes to professional agencies, this industry isn’t oversaturated at all. What does UX/UI do? In a nutshell, user experience and user interface are two intersecting fields that define how people interact with the products/services. Thus, UI stands for the visual look of interfaces, buttons, lists, etc. And UX provides for the user journeys, processes, interaction flows. Who is a UX strategist? A strategist is a person who plans it all. He or she can combine various skills: design, writing, analysis, marketing, etc. The final goal of any strategist is to create the flows and interfaces that are incredibly user-friendly and useful. Similar services Custom software development services Mobile app development Web app development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman