Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Services provided Software architecture UI/UX design Mobile app development Custom software development MVP development Manual testing Expertise used Cloud solutions Industry Healthcare Fitness Project overview Tribe mobile application is a community-based fitness and sports universe where users at all levels may engage. The primary project’s goals include developing a platform where athletes can create profiles and fitness trainers can create business pages to promote their services. Also, the app should enable fitness‑related businesses and facilities like gyms to market their services to a broader audience. Simply put, Tribe app should serve as a marketing platform and tool for businesses to sell their services and products like apparel or equipment, for instance. Client Tribe Team 9 team members Country United States of America Duration 6 months Client information Tribe is a platform-based networking application to connect like-minded individuals and engage in fitness and sports-related activities. Business challenge The main idea of the app is to provide support and professional help to people who want to achieve better results. Empathy, motivation, and support are the main elements in the implementation of the application. Also, our client wanted to develop a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) to test the business concept of Tribe application and publish it on the Apple Store. The idea was to create a universe-like app for athletes, trainers, and businesses to interact, find the needed services, and promote services and products in one place. The app must provide such features as creating a profile, posts, challenges, and communities and facilitating users to engage. Technical challenges Among the key technical challenges of the project were setting up an Azure database and Firebase, creating various APIs, and synchronizing back-end and front-end code. Solution delivered The project started with a discovery phase. As part of this phase, we delivered a scope of functionalities to be developed. Functionalities were developed for three main groups of users: main users, experts, system administrators and super administrators. The deliverables of the discovery phase also included use case diagrams, context diagrams showing data coming from each type of user, business requirements, and the value proposition canvas. The team delivered an MVP of a mobile application and planned to publish it on the App Store. It is a fully functioning app with a basic set of features for athletes, trainers, and businesses to communicate with other users, and create their communities, challenges, and posts. The customer plans to continue the development of the application once he is ready with further steps, ideas, and branding and marketing strategy. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features User roles and characteristics Users can choose the type of account: Professional Page, Athlete Page, Business Page. Sign in/Sign up Users can sign up by entering their email, nickname, first name, last name, and other details. User verification Users should verify their account to finish registration by entering a 6-digit code. Main user profile Users can view feeds, other users’ profiles, posts, and challenges. Also, profile editing is possible. Posts People can create posts with text, images, and videos. Posts can be liked and commented on. Challenges Users can create new challenges by specifying the number of days, activities, equipment, and location. Communities People can create communities with specified activities and locations. Value to our client MVP developed Our customer has got a solution with enough features that early users can use and test. The app has a variety of features: sign up/sign in, user verification, user profile, posting, challenges creation, community creation, search by different parameters, etc. Feasibility analysis done Speaking about the app’s feasibility, we can say that the app’s idea can be developed further. Technically, the product is feasible as it has already been developed with the chosen tech stack. Based on the MVP project outcomes, the customer can study the economic and operational aspects of feasibility analysis. Idea tested before going to investors When the MVP is developed, the customer can pitch his idea to potential investors with confidence that the product’s idea is technically feasible, and that the app works successfully. Investors can test all the features and see how it works. Our tech stack Java Flutter Microsoft Azure Firebase Our other cases Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Healthcare Dental booking app for major software provider Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman