Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · 18 min. read · 10328 reads · 21 Aug 2025 23 Sep 2026 CRM development: Effective enterprise-grade solutions What is CRM development? In modern business, what can be automated is automated. You will hardly find an inventory/accounting system without the use of specialized software. Trade representatives use special applications for order processing on their mobile phones and tablets. While most processes are automated, insufficient attention is given to customer relationships, especially in small and mid-size businesses. Custom CRM software solutions can help turn things around and maximize the efficiency of customer interactions, hence their satisfaction, by accessible means — tailored CRM platforms that can be easily integrated with existing systems. This article explores the principles of creating CRM software solutions in the fullest detail. Let’s take a look! What is CRM development? Excel sheets and notepads simply don’t cut the deal when business operations gain enterprise-scale momentum. Especially if that business works with paid orders, each of which must be duly accounted for if any quarterly profit reports are to be generated. Accounting customer data is also an especially multi-faceted line of responsibility, where tons of inputs must be processed by a range of means and tools. An up-to-date solution for customer data accumulation and accounting is the implementation of a CRM system (which stands for customer relationships management). The system can bring a lot of benefits to S&M businesses and large corporations alike. Below are the key advantages of CRM implementation: Mutual CRM database of contacts, including customers and counterparts An ability to monitor the quality of work of sales departments at any time A possibility to get statistics and analytics of lead generation effectiveness An ability to improve the performance and to craft the strategy of business development CRM system benefits A CRM-system is any option of control and accounting which helps enhance the relationships with customers. Even paper types of accounting can be considered as a system if these allow for effective control of all relationships with customers. It’s obvious that paper belongs in the past. That’s why we mean specialized software by the term CRM. CRM software Pinch and spread for zoom Not alienating customers should be the main objective of any CRM syste m for small or midsize businesses. It’s very important to monitor incoming calls and inquiries from websites and emails. Before choosing a CRM system, you should understand if your business actually needs it. Oftentimes, CEOs hear about the best CRM software and think that they need to implement some at all costs. Who really needs a CRM? CRM systems w ork well for any business that works directly with customers and wants to increase the number of buyers. You need CRM software if your business puts effort into customer acquisition and retention. If you develop your business and invest in marketing, CRM software will become a great helper for you. You might be interested in the following article: A comprehensive CRM modules list: Must-have features Why might you need CRM software? Often, business owners wonder why they might need a CRM system since they don’t have many customers and a sales department consists of only several people. They think that it’s a piece of cake to control the work of sales departments. Here are some reasons why you might need CRM apps: Reason 1 . Not to alienate a potential customer and not to miss any incoming call or inquiry. Small and midsize businesses are rather competitive. To attract new customers, companies put in great effort. Compared to other expenses, investments in attracting new customers may be quite expensive. Automated systems allow recording every single call your sales department receives, every single inquiry and order. Reason 2 . Monitor the work progress of your employees. If you don’t have a common standardized system for customer relationships, every team member will work as they like it. Some will do accounting in Excel sheets, others – on paper, and what is the worst thing is not to record the work progress at all. In this chaos, business owners will not be able to track the performance and effectiveness of their employees. CRM systems solve this problem as you will be able to track every single call or contact in one place and at any time. Besides, you can export this information as well. Reason 3 . Every business is in need of a static database. With a good CRM system, you will able to capture the required information and contacts in a single database. CEOs are able to analyze the performance and plan further work with regard to the analysis done. Reason 4 . Out-of-the-box solutions that can be used for developing your own custom software. Every CRM system is an embodiment of the developers’ vision. Any CRM software has a lot of built-in features which can bring the workflow to a new level. The implementation of customer relationship systems allows getting not only software but also the help of developers and their vision of how a sales department must work. Developers rely on best practices and experts’ opinions while developing a new enterprise solution. Besides, users of CRM tools will get a lot of other useful things that depend on the system you choose. Read more about CRM integration in our latest article: “How to provide CRM integration” How to choose the customer management software? The main rule is to pay attention to the availability of all the features you would like to use within your work process. For example, if you consider incoming calls to be the most important part of your customer relationships process, you should pay attention to the capability of the system to be integrated with telephony. If you generate leads through your website, you should pay attention to the possibility of integrating your system with your CMS. The next step is to consult an expert in CRM implementation. If the r ecommended has all the functionalities and features you need and costs reasonably, feel free to make up your mind about it. Today, there are two types of CRM solutions that are based on two different technologies. A system as a service (SaaS). Herewith, the software and all the data are hosted on the vendor’s server. You get online access to the server through a browser, a client program, or a mobile application. All processes are performed on the vendor’s side. Stand-alone – a license for setup and use of a software product. You get a solution that can be installed on your server. If you need, you will be able to customize the software according to your requirements and those technical opportunities provided by the vendors. If you choose a SaaS solution, you will meet some challenges. You won’t be able to make changes in the code. Usually, such types of systems allow setting up access rights for your employees, integrating some external systems (getting data from the website, recording incoming calls, etc.), choosing the interface, setting up reporting, etc. You should also bear in mind that while using a SaaS product, you must always have access to the Internet. It’s very likely that you will pay for creating any backup. However, SaaS solutions have two key pros. You don’t need a server to host your software. You won’t need to update the system yourself, as this is done by a vendor. Stand-alone software are out-of-the-box solutions that you can install on your server. You will be able to make changes in the code. More often, small and midsize businesses don’t require stand-alone solutions. CRM system features Integration with telephony Any CRM system must be integrated with telephony. Your employees must be able to record incoming calls and initiate upcoming calls. There are two options for telephony realization: The call is made from the browser and the whole system. The quality of sound and signal processing depends on the browser and CRM’s code. Telephony is integrated with external services like Asterisk , Avaya, etc. In this case, you install a system of virtual telephony based on the services mentioned above and add your phone numbers to this telephony. The call is made with the help of an SIP phone. API integration Any business uses different services to get inquiries, to do accounting and paperwork. When choosing CRM software, pay attention to whether there are API solutions. The availability of out-of-the-box APIs is a great advantage. The relationships with customers include the following activities: Phone calls Emails Meetings Newsletters You can automate everything except for meetings. Tasks planning When you choose a CRM system, you should pay attention to whether it is possible to plan, assign, and track tasks. Employees must be able to assign tasks to themselves and their co-workers as well as to set up notifications. Besides, a system must monitor the cooperation and interaction of staff. Data import Look carefully at what features for data import are provided by a CRM system . In what format are you able to download the required information? Is there any migration module? It’s important to import data transparently and quickly. The launch of the system will likely fail if there is no convenient data import, as it is quite difficult to add all the contacts manually. Localization Today, localization is not mandatory, as most popular CRM tools already have it. However, you should take the language question into account as your employees may face language difficulties when using the software. CRM development approaches When it comes to developing a custom CRM system, businesses have several options, each tailored to different needs, budgets, and goals. Let’s break them down in a way that feels more approachable: Custom CRM development If there’s a sufficient budget in place, a company may safely go all in and build its own custom CRM system from scratch. It would be completely tailored to the business, with all the features needed and none of the fluff. The beauty of this approach is that it fits perfectly into existing internal business processes and grows along with the business. The downside? It’s expensive, takes time to build, and you’ll need a talented team of developers to make it happen. Pros and cons of custom. CRM development Pinch and spread for zoom Pre-made CRM solutions For businesses that want something ready to go, pre-made CRM tools like Salesforce or HubSpot are popular choices. These systems are packed with features and can be up and running quickly. They’re great for companies that don’t need heavy customization and want vendor support. However, the trade-off is that you’re working within the limits of the software, with no ability to really tweak and tune it. Pros and cons of pre-made CRM solutions Pinch and spread for zoom Hybrid CRM development Then there’s the middle ground: hybrid CRM. This approach combines a pre-made system with custom CRM application features. Here, you can start with a solid readymade foundation but add your own touches to make it all fit just right. It’s faster and cheaper than CRM software development from scratch but still grants a good level of personalization. However, customizing a pre-built system can be tricky, especially if the original software isn’t flexible enough as is. Pros and cons of hybrid CRM development Pinch and spread for zoom Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Cloud-based CRM Cloud-based CRMs, like Microsoft Dynamics 365, are a great option for businesses that need flexibility. Since everything is hosted online, you can access your CRM from anywhere, whether in the office or on the go. These systems are scalable and affordable, thanks to pay-as-you-go models. But because your data lives in the cloud, security and internet reliability are important considerations. Pros and cons of cloud-based CRM Pinch and spread for zoom On-premise CRM For companies that want total control over their data, on-premise CRM is the way to go. This means hosting the software on your own servers, giving you complete oversight of security and customization. It’s a great fit for industries with strict data regulations, but it comes with significant upfront costs, and you’ll need an IT team to keep things running smoothly. Pros and cons of on-premise CRM Pinch and spread for zoom Open-source CRM Finally, there’s open-source CRM, where businesses use free or low-cost software like SuiteCRM or Odoo. This option is perfect for companies that want maximum customization without breaking the bank. Plus, there’s a whole community of developers contributing plugins and improvements. That said, you’ll need some technical know-how to make the most of it, and the lack of official support can be a challenge. Pros and cons of open-source CRM Pinch and spread for zoom Open source or proprietary architecture? The difference between open-source and proprietary architecture is that in the first case, you get a system with open-source code, and in the second case – you can’t see the code and make any changes to it. Usually, large CRM development companies offer proprietary architecture. In this case, you get a powerful system that you will be able to modify according to the conditions defined by the developers of the system. Open source code systems are usually based on some CMS systems, which allow integration of other systems with your website. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing Costs When it comes to the integration of any system into a company, any businessman thinks how much it will cost. When you look at the CRM product cost indicated on the official site of the product, you see just a part of the total expenses. The total cost consists of the following things: The cost of the license may be the price for cloud solutions or the price for one copy. Data import. You will definitely need to import contacts and other important data. That’s why the availability or lack of this module will affect the cost of the system. The cost of finalizing. Even if you bought an out-of-the-box solution, you will need to finalize the product and customize it. The cost of maintenance and support. By the way, many business owners forget about the essential point of financial loss during a transition period. You should bear in mind that during this period, you may lose some leads or process them with delay. Hidden costs also arise when your employees, instead of doing their tasks, learn how to use the system. Any CRM integration requires great effort, so business owners must prepare and be ready to meet the challenges. The cost of the license Depending on what type of CRM system you choose, there are various options for license purchase. You can buy the following types of licenses : Unlimited license The license for a certain period of time (month, year) The copy of the software t o install on your server An unlimited license that is active for an unlimited period When you subscribe, you purchase access to the system for a certain period of time. The subscription cost is reasonable in most cases, but you will have to pay regularly to prolong your access to the system. CRM development process Developing a CRM system is a structured process that combines strategic planning, design, development, and testing to make sure the final product matches the vision. Here’s a step-by-step breakdown of the custom CRM development process: CRM development process Pinch and spread for zoom Step 1 – Defining objectives and requirements Start by understanding why the CRM is needed and what specific problems it will solve: Identify the key challenges your business faces in managing customer relationships. Define clear objectives, like improving lead tracking, streamlining customer communication, or automating marketing workflows. Gather input from stakeholders, including sales, marketing, and customer support teams, to identify their needs. Prioritize features — decide whether you need contact management, sales process automation, reporting tools, or anything else. Step 2 – Selecting the development approach We cover this topic a lot just right above, but to sum up, your options here include the following: Custom development : Building the CRM from scratch. Pre-built customization : Adapting existing software (e.g., Salesforce or Zoho). Open-source CRM : Using tools like Odoo or SuiteCRM and customizing them. The choice depends on factors like budget, timeline, technical expertise, and the level of customization required. Step 3 – Plan and design Step 1: Create a roadmap Outline the project timeline, key milestones, and the overall workflow for development. Define roles and responsibilities for the development team. Step 2: Design the system Map out the CRM’s architecture, including how the data will flow through the system. Design wireframes or prototypes of the CRM interface to visualize the user experience (UX). Focus on creating an intuitive, user-friendly interface to make the CRM easy for employees to adopt. Step 4 – Development Frontend development: Build the user interface (UI), making sure it’s responsive and visually appealing. Implement features like dashboards, contact management screens, and search functionalities. Backend development: Create the server-side logic to process data and handle complex functions, like sales automation or report generation. Set up integrations with existing tools like email platforms, ERP systems, or marketing software. Database development: Design and implement the database to store customer data, sales records, and other information securely. Optimize it for performance and scalability. Data migration and import could be one of the most expensive things within the system’s launch. The data are to be imported from the other systems, processed, standardized, and only then imported to the new system. Step 5 – Feature integration Add key functionalities based on the requirements gathered earlier: Contact management : Organize and track customer information. Sales automation : Automate repetitive tasks like follow-ups or lead scoring. Marketing tools : Implement email campaigns, social media tracking, or customer segmentation. Analytics and reporting : Provide insights into sales performance, customer engagement and traits, and team productivity. Prepare for CRM integration with third-party tools like payment gateways, communication platforms, and analytics software. Step 6 – Testing Types of testing that you should strive to cover with your project include: Functional testing : Verifying that all features work as intended. Performance testing : Making sure the system can handle high loads of data and multiple users. Security testing : Checking for vulnerabilities to protect sensitive customer data. User testing : Get feedback from employees or a test group to assess usability. Quality Assurance : Testing user journeys and seeing how a CRM performs from the end-user’s perspective. Prioritize also fixing bugs and making improvements based on all the feedback you gather from among stakeholders, testers, users, etc. Step 7 – Deployment Once testing is complete and the CRM is ready, deploy it to the live environment. Provide a smooth transition by migrating existing customer data from old systems to the new CRM. Watch out for minimal disruption to daily business operations during the rollout. Step 8 Adoption and training Employee Training: Educate teams on how to use the CRM effectively through workshops, tutorials, or hands-on sessions. Documentation: Provide user manuals or guides for reference. Ongoing support: Set up a support system to handle questions, troubleshoot issues, and maintain the system. Step 9 – Maintenance and support You should understand that there are failures in the system from time to time, especially if you choose a standalone solution. Maintenance will also cost you money. With SaaS solutions, you will probably pay less for technical support. More often, a custom solution works well. Step 10 Monitoring and optimization After deployment, monitor the CRM’s performance and gather feedback from users. Analyze usage data to see if it’s meeting business objectives. Make regular updates to fix bugs, add new features, and adapt to changing business needs. You might be interested in reading our article “ERP implementation life cycle: Main frameworks and phases” Things to consider before CRM development Define business goals . Why do you need a CRM? What specific problems are you trying to solve? Understand your processes . Is lead tracking disorganized? Do your teams struggle to collaborate on customer-related tasks? Map out your current workflows. Involve stakeholders . Get input from all relevant teams (e.g., sales, marketing, customer service) to understand their needs and challenges. Determine budget and resources . Will you invest in a fully custom solution, modify existing software, or use an open-source platform? Decide on CRM type . Pick a type according to the descriptions above. Plan out integrations . See which software and tools your business already uses (e.g., email platforms, marketing software, ERP systems). Set development timeline . Establish a realistic timeline for development, testing, and deployment. Choose the right development team . Decide whether you’ll use an in-house team, hire external developers, or work with a CRM vendor. Opting for SaaS systems to avoid ongoing support expenses One last thing to consider is the ultimate need to go for SaaS with your particular needs. SaaS can make or break your project, so make sure to do your research. These solutions are usually robust and well-managed. The developers keep track of the operation. The system has limited functionalities as it performs only a certain range of tasks. An interface is intuitive and user-friendly that’s why users don’t need help from the experts. In this article, you learn what a custom CRM solution is, who and why needs it, and how to choose a system that fits your business goals and needs. Here you were able to learn the essentials of any CRM software and make your own choice. Follow us to learn more about enterprise-grade solutions for your organizations. Should you need a custom CRM development, feel free to contact us. FAQ What does CRM software do? Customer Relationship Management software is a tool designed to help businesses effectively manage and nurture relationships with their customers, prospects, and leads. Its primary goal is to organize and centralize customer data in one place, enabling teams to access and analyze this information to improve customer experiences and business processes. A CRM system automates essential tasks such as contact management, sales tracking, lead nurturing, targeted marketing campaigns, and customer support. For example, sales teams can use it to track the progress of deals, customer service teams can log customer interactions, and marketing teams can personalize campaigns based on customer preferences. By providing a full-on view of every customer, CRM software helps businesses deliver personalized and efficient service at every stage of the customer journey. What is CRM software development? CRM software development is the process of designing, building, and implementing a CRM system tailored to a business’s unique requirements. This can involve the need to build a customized CRM from scratch, modify existing systems, or integrate third-party CRM tools into a company’s workflows. The process typically includes several stages, such as defining business objectives, gathering requirements from different departments (e.g., sales, marketing, and customer support), planning the system architecture, coding the platform, and testing it for functionality and usability. Depending on the approach, CRM development services may include features like contact management, sales automation, marketing tools, analytics, and integrations with other software tools. Custom software development is a proven way to make sure the system makes a perfect pair for the organization’s existing infrastructure, enabling more efficient customer data management, automating routine tasks, and enhancing team collaboration. What are the benefits of using CRM software? CRM software offers numerous advantages to businesses, helping achieve higher customer satisfaction, enhanced customer relationships, and boosted profitability. By storing all customer data in one place, CRMs enable businesses to provide personalized service, resolve issues quickly, and anticipate customer needs. For centralized data management, CRMs act as a single source of truth for all customer-related information, eliminating silos between departments and ensuring everyone has access to up-to-date data. In terms of sales automation and productivity, sales teams can use CRM to automate repetitive tasks like follow-ups, lead scoring, and scheduling, allowing them to focus on closing deals. CRMs can also help businesses segment their audience, track customer preferences, and run targeted campaigns that yield better ROI for higher marketing results. And with built-in analytics and reporting, businesses can track KPIs, monitor team performance, and make data-driven decisions. On top of all that, team members can share updates, assign tasks, and collaborate on customer-related activities in real time using a single seamless platform. Lastly, scalability — as businesses grow, well-integrated CRM systems can scale to accommodate more users, customers, and custom features. What are the key functionalities of a CRM system? A robust CRM system typically includes a range of functionalities designed to centralize customer management and streamline operations. The core features are: Contact management : Centralized storage of customer and prospect details, including names, phone numbers, emails, interaction history, and more. Lead and sales management : Tools to track and manage leads, monitor the sales pipeline, and automate processes like follow-ups or deal closures. Marketing automation : Features for creating, running, and analyzing email campaigns, customer segmentation, and lead scoring. Customer support and service : Ticketing systems, chatbots, and knowledge bases to resolve customer issues efficiently. Analytics and reporting : Dashboards and reports to track sales performance, campaign ROI, and customer behavior insights. Workflow automation : Automating repetitive tasks, such as sending reminders, updating records, or notifying team members about important events. Integration with other tools : Ability to connect with third-party applications like email platforms, social media, accounting software, or Enterprise Resource Planning systems. Mobile access : Many CRMs offer mobile apps, allowing teams to access and update customer data on the go. What programming language is used in CRM? The choice of programming language for CRM development largely depends on the platform, specific requirements of the project, and a custom CRM development company of choice. Some of the most commonly used languages include: Java : Known for its scalability and reliability, Java is often used in enterprise-level CRM systems like Salesforce. Python : With its simplicity and versatility, Python is popular for developing CRMs that require advanced data analytics or machine learning capabilities. PHP : This is a go-to language for developing open-source CRMs like SuiteCRM or custom web-based solutions. JavaScript : Frequently used for building user interfaces and ensuring the CRM system is responsive and interactive, often in combination with frameworks like React or Angular. C# : A powerful language used for creating CRM systems on the Microsoft stack, including tools like Microsoft Dynamics. Ruby : Often used for building smaller CRM systems or customizing existing ones, thanks to its efficiency and fast development time. SQL : Essential for managing and querying databases that store customer information, sales records, and other data Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents What is CRM development? CRM system benefits Why might you need CRM software? How to choose the customer management software? CRM system features CRM development approaches Custom CRM development Pre-made CRM solutions Hybrid CRM development Cloud-based CRM On-premise CRM Open-source CRM Open source or proprietary architecture? Costs CRM development process Things to consider before CRM development Opting for SaaS systems to avoid ongoing support expenses FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles 20 min. read · 11 Mar 2025 20 Mar 2025 CRM modules list: Features for effective customer relationships 25 min. read · 28 Jun 2024 08 Jan 2025 Enterprise mobile application development: Types and key challenges 24 min. read · 15 May 2024 24 Nov 2024 Enterprise software development: Full process 17 min. read · 11 Jun 2024 21 Nov 2024 How to develop an effective data migration strategy Insurance 9 min. read · 29 Jul 2026 03 Aug 2026 Guidelines for effective insurance claims handling 2026 9 min. read · 27 May 2026 27 May 2026 Java vs RoR for enterprise applications: Which to choose? All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman