Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Insurance · 8 min. read · 2304 reads · 14 Feb 2025 27 Mar 2025 Insurance digital channels: How to gain a competitive advantage The across-the-board advent of Industry 4.0 has made digitalization a vital necessity for numerous industries. Enterprises in various domains – from retail to banking – robustly introduce state-of-the-art solutions in their pipeline routine and customer interaction. The insurance sector is moving in the wake of this global technological trend, extending a range of services to consumers via electronic media. So, let’s look at how innovative know-how can revolutionize this field and make its services more accessible and affordable for the digitally-savvy clientele of the early third millennium. Check what we offer for insurers: Digital channels — Mobile apps, web apps, and chatbots Digital vs. online insurance capabilities: A difference that matters People dealing with gadget-powered insurance services have a misconception. Many use the word “digital” to describe any online activity in this realm. Yet, “digital” and “online” aren’t identical. Everything digital is indeed online, but not the other way around. So, what’s the difference? Aiming to oblige their customers, modern insurance companies try to minimize their visits to brick-and-mortar offices. For instance, after a car accident, people can take a photo of their damaged vehicle, fill out documents in e-format, and send them all via the internet to the company’s site. The latter checks all information and makes a payment. Or, people can buy a policy on the website, too. All these moves are online, but they aren’t digital. What is meant by insurance digital capabilities? This is when human interference in any insurance-related procedure is reduced to increase the speed and quality of decision-making and avoid possible errors and biases. For example, the car accident case mentioned above will get digital treatment if the photo is reviewed by software that communicates with the client after that and addresses the payment issue entirely by itself. Quote of CEO of UNIVERSALNA Insurance Company Pinch and spread for zoom Implementing digital techniques in the insurance realm is more complicated than in other finance-related spheres (such as banking) because human interference can’t be excluded here, especially when it comes to complex corporate products with many nuances to consider. Nevertheless, it is a must when underwriting, where employees often decide how much risk insuring something involves. However, specialized scoring systems and financial models can be a good crutch. While harnessing digital capabilities, insurance companies must steer by people’s expectations when they apply for their services. You might be interested in more related articles: How to develop a chatbot for an insurance company How insurance companies can improve customer experience with a mobile app Insurance digital channels: Benefits for customers The client-first approach is the bedrock of any contemporary business strategy and works well for the insurance industry. What do people want when they address insurers? It is better to start with what they don’t. In our fast-paced world, choosing conditions and pricing options is a waste of time. So, while dealing with an insurance company, people expect: Benefits of digital channels for customer Pinch and spread for zoom As soon as solutions offered by an insurer guarantee all (or most) of these, people will get a satisfactory customer experience, making them prefer this same company over its competitors in the industry. First, however, organizations in the field should consider the peculiarities of the insurance events and objects in attempting to meet their clients halfway. Learn what experts think about the future of insurance technologies: Podcast with a founder of BriteCore: Achieving growth with the help of technology Insurance digital channels: Benefits for insurers As a seasoned vendor with multiple developed insurance solutions, DICEUS knows the nitty-gritty of onboarding digital instruments in different use cases. Insurance services for enterprises and corporate clients aren’t that easy to digitalize because of the vast number of individual customers and the types of policies that can work there. Since digital means can’t cover all aspects of the insurance processes (especially in corporate insurance), qualified human personnel should step into the breach. Digital channels they employ can be used as additional tools to assist them and streamline some repetitive processes. And the greater the size of the enterprise is, the more inadequate the exclusively digital approach becomes. Benefits of digital channels for insurers Pinch and spread for zoom On the other hand, the domain of retail services (like vehicle or travel insurance for physical clients) is likely to witness the total disappearance of classical offices with specialized staff. This sector can enjoy the benefits of digitalizing insurance services, with most programs and sales occurring via digital and online mechanisms. Besides, onboarding professional software to cater to the needs of individual customers can save both them and organizations a pretty penny. Why? Related case study: Claims management system for insurance . Key benefits of digital insurance: Digitalization allows for reducing the cost of a tariff Naturally, developing insurance software is never a chump change issue. Organizations that opt for it must be ready to pay a considerable sum to have a top-notch insurance solution. However significant the worth may seem initially, this investment pays off in the long run. How does it work? Delegating most tasks to AI leads to automating pipeline processes and diminishing the personnel involved. Employee-related spending is the most significant expenditure item in any organization’s budget. So, suppose software replaces a multitude of underwriters, sellers, marketers, and other specialists. In that case, the insurance company will eventually save on their salaries, paid vacations, sick leaves, etc., and administrative expenses. However, it is not only about direct cost reduction. More efficient handling of insurance events and client interaction spells a more significant influx of customers and more enormous profits for insurance companies. Digital capabilities for insurance Pinch and spread for zoom People looking for insurance services also come out on the right side of the digitalization drive. By leveraging various analytical solutions , companies can streamline the calculation of tariffs and optimize their structure. As a result, they become fairer and more individual. Thus, in vehicle insurance, companies establish such plans as “pay as you drive” and “pay how you drive,” where tariffs differ depending on the driver’s behavior, and distance traveled. As a result, people can choose whatever they like according to their preferences, habits, and wallet size. This more personalized approach is yet another magnet drawing customers by the dozen. Moreover, it will become a competitive edge for digitally-minded insurers, enabling them to stand out among not-so-tech-savvy rivals in the niche. Yet, despite the apparent assets of adopting the digitalized approach, not all companies are prepared to implement it. You might be interested in reading: “Insurance core systems: Build a custom solution or modernize a legacy platform?” Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Are insurers ready to exploit digital channels to the fullest extent? Currently, the digitalization trend is proceeding on a small scale, chiefly because of the structure of the insurance market. Conventionally, companies operating in it rely predominantly on affiliate sales channels. It means that people get insurance while making some purchase (for instance, buying a car or booking a trip). Car dealers or travel agents sell policies, and people buy them as a part of the package deal, so neither affiliate partners of insurance companies nor clients feel any need for digitalization. The upgrading of the insurance services level becomes necessary when service providers focus on voluntary and individual insurance, where fast and efficient interaction with a customer conditions business success and the steady growth of the clientele. As this segment of the insurance market expands, companies will increasingly harness digital know-how both in their client-side routine and internal workflow optimization. So, what digital channels proved to bring the most value to insurers? If you’d like to learn more about the potential of digital channels for your business, check out our solutions . Digitalizing insurance routine: The DICEUS approach DICEUS is a software development company that stays current with industry trends. We offer insurance organizations three tools to increase customer engagement, reduce costs, and accelerate all shop floor procedures they rely on in their workflow. Custom mobile apps. In our smartphone-driven age, ignoring people’s mobile experience is an unforgivable oversight that can lead to lagging behind your more tech-oriented rivals. Therefore, we offer full-cycle app development services that embrace customer journey mapping , buyer persona identification, and business analysis. The outcome is a high-end application that will keep your clientele informed about the latest events and foster customer loyalty. Custom web portals . These digital distribution channels benefit both customers and staff. By harnessing a web app with unique functionalities, an insurer can reduce paperwork and streamline pipeline activities for all stakeholders. Chatbots and messengers. It is impossible to imagine modern customer service without AI-fueled chatbots that tackle all redundant and elementary operations customers of insurance agencies perform (like submitting a claim or purchasing a policy). Our expertise allows us to take into account product and niche specifics, as well as the relevant conversation, and flows, to create a solution with an integrated messenger that will facilitate the workflow immensely. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing Key takeaways Today, an ever-increasing roster of industries onboards high-tech solutions to enhance efficiency and augment customer engagement efforts. So far, the insurance field is somewhat slow in adopting them. Still, the most forward-looking actors take innovations in their stride and introduce online and digital channels in their interaction with the clientele. By harnessing a mobile app, web portal, and chatbot, insurance companies can reduce expenditures, optimize tariffs, accelerate service providing, reduce paperwork, and keep communication with customers open 24/7. FAQ What are insurance digital channels? Insurance digital channels are software products used by insurers to engage more customers and automate key operations like policy selling, claims management, promoting new products, and more. Among the most popular channels are mobile apps, chatbots, web portals. What types of digital channels are commonly used in insurance? Mobile applications, chatbots, and web portals are the most popular digital channels used in insurance. Usually, customers can buy insurance policies and submit claims through such channels. That simplifies the work of insurers and increases customer loyalty as customers don’t need to call a call center or visit physical offices of insurance companies. What are the benefits of insurance digital channels? Insurance digital channels have many advantages both for insurers and their customers. The latter can access insurance products and services wherever they are anytime, buy car, home, health, life and other types of insurance in a few clicks, file claims online without contacting agents, etc. Insurers, in turn, get simplified and automated workflows to manage quoting, claims, marketing campaigns, customer feedback, and more. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Digital vs. online insurance capabilities: A difference that matters Insurance digital channels: Benefits for customers Insurance digital channels: Benefits for insurers Key benefits of digital insurance: Digitalization allows for reducing the cost of a tariff Are insurers ready to exploit digital channels to the fullest extent? Digitalizing insurance routine: The DICEUS approach Key takeaways FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles Insurance 8 min. read · 30 Jan 2024 16 Dec 2024 Digital transformation strategy for the insurance industry: development and implementation plan Insurance 4 min. read · 11 Dec 2025 11 Dec 2025 Top 5 digital insurance trends 2026 15 min. read · 28 Apr 2025 28 Apr 2025 Digital transformation consulting: How it can improve your business Fintech 18 min. read · 21 Aug 2025 24 Sep 2026 Digital wallet app development: Benefits and key features Insurance 18 min. read · 18 Dec 2024 18 Dec 2024 Custom insurance broker software: How to develop and use effectively Insurance 14 min. read · 26 Dec 2024 03 Dec 2025 Health insurance quoting software: Tech to accelerate growth All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman