Healthcare software development services DICEUS provides healthcare software development services, implementing innovative solutions to the industry. Talk to our expert Modern healthcare providers rely heavily on innovative technologies to deliver top-notch medical services. Custom healthcare software development services offered by high-profile experts in the niche aim to develop and implement bespoke healthcare software solutions to help medical staff and administrative personnel boost the operational efficiency of their pipeline processes and provide maximum patient satisfaction. Our healthcare software development services and solutions DICUES is a seasoned healthcare software development company whose healthcare solutions and medical software development services will revolutionize all aspects of healthcare organizations’ shop floor routine and dramatically improve patient outcomes. Custom Healthcare Software Development Pinch and spread for zoom Telemedicine apps Telemedicine solutions are among the healthcare software development services focused on clinical integration and telecommunication technologies that boost traditional diagnostics and health monitoring. Advanced capabilities allow for efficient remote medical education and various remote patient services. Implementation examples include live consulting, digital high-res image sharing, remote live medical advice, and more. The live-streaming feature is the usual trademark of such solutions. Learn more Telemedicine software Yet another scope of our expertise is computer vision solutions. We employ a stack of related technologies, methods, and algorithms that enable systems to process images and video streams (e.g., from cameras, scanners, 3D data sheets, etc.). Implementing medical imaging software based on computer vision allows better identification of visual assets, classification, and analysis of images. In healthcare, such solutions help enhance diagnostics and detect tumors on medical images. Learn more Medical device software We specialize in medical device software development for hospital hardware systems that facilitate automated data collection and analysis in real-time. We also create custom equipment tracking solutions to help monitor the availability and status of medical devices and equipment in a centralized manner. This is much more convenient than the outdated use of paper notebooks or software tools not intended for such purposes from the get-go, such as MS Excel. Learn more EHR and EMR software We provide medical software development to help health workers conveniently keep a patient history in one place and access it anytime from any device—smartphone, tablet, laptop, PC—you name it. All data is updated and synchronized in real time. In particular, we can implement an electronic health record (EHR) or electronic medical record (EMR) solution, which are full-fledged digital analogs of conventional patient paper charts. Learn more EHR and EMR integration We help healthcare providers develop, integrate, and implement electronic and medical health records according to customer needs and requirements. Our experience in system integration for medical facilities is more than ten years. Learn more Hospital management system At DICEUS, we offer a wide range of patient care software solutions to help automate medical personnel’s patient interactions at all stages of their responsible work. Our custom healthcare software development products also help patients better track their health conditions individually, with timely treatment schedule reminders and triggered encrypted patient data sending to doctors for monitoring and emergency purposes. Learn more Healthcare data warehouse With our custom DWH solutions, you can store and manage large volumes of healthcare-related data in one repository. Data can be consolidated from disparate sources such as EHRs, patient demographics, claims information, lab results, etc. Learn more Clinical decision support systems (CDSS) Accurate and timely decisions guarantee patient safety and, what’s more, sometimes even their lives in healthcare delivery. CDSS is a game-changer, assisting medical professionals in meticulously analyzing patient information, data from medical devices, and laboratory information management systems. Such insights are then used to warn physicians about potential threats, help them formulate a diagnosis, and outline a treatment plan. Telehealth platforms These healthcare software development solutions function as a comprehensive hub, comprising the entire gamut of telemedicine tools (both synchronous and asynchronous) to enable consulting, diagnosing, prescription issuance, and follow-up patient monitoring without the physical presence of healthcare professionals and their customers in the exact location. Within the platform, stakeholders can choose any communication channel (video conferencing, voice calls, messaging, etc.) they are comfortable with. Pharmacy management software The primary goal of such solutions is to facilitate pharmacy workflows, focusing on improving patient outcomes and increasing revenues. Pharmacy management products we develop allow companies in the field to tackle inventory management, monitor sales, automate prescription and refill reminder processing, track clinical trial results, and more. On demand, we can implement point-of-sale (POS) and EHR integration and provide the solution with patient management capabilities. healthcare software development Pinch and spread for zoom Modern software solutions for centralized data access, monitoring, and streaming help solve a wide range of tasks for clinics that have been sticking to out-of-date approaches for too long. Our experts are ready to take on custom healthcare software development optimized specifically for your medical organization. Thanks to the input of our specialists and reduced human-factor risks in the long run, we guarantee the maximum ROI. Our healthcare software development company is driven by the latest technology trends to improve all aspects of your business. Let’s discuss your requirements! Send request Which organizations gain from developing custom healthcare software Robust custom software solutions are leveraged by many institutions operating in healthcare-related domains. Hospitals These are the most widespread medical facilities providing an entire scope of healthcare services. Naturally, healthcare solutions find multiple use cases in hospitals, including patient management, laboratory management, telemedicine services, EHR, inventory management, analytics and reporting, and more. Dental clinics They can leverage custom software to streamline appointment scheduling, keep track of patient records, facilitate billing processing, and more. AI-powered dental software products are also instrumental in digital radiology, intraoral imaging, tooth shade matching, computer implantation, AR/VR-driven training, and other areas of the dentistry pipeline. Mental health centers Such ambulatory facilities rely on healthcare software primarily for delivering remote services, so mobile apps and telehealth solutions reign supreme in this sector. They increase patient engagement and help establish a stable rapport between specialists and their clientele. Besides, by embracing custom solutions, these organizations streamline patient onboarding and step up admission and readmission routines. Insurance agencies The ultimate goal of healthcare software in this domain is to provide maximum health insurance portability. This is achieved by launching dedicated mobile apps and integrating insurance modules into hospital management systems. These two steps guarantee fast insurance eligibility validation, promote claim filing and processing procedures, and accelerate obtaining reimbursements. Pharmacies Thanks to healthcare software, pharmacies can facilitate shop floor operations and boost the efficiency of their services. Specialized solutions bring maximum value in inventory and prescription management, in-depth analysis of the organization’s performance indicators, and medication dispensing. Once the pharmacy IT ecosystem is integrated with EHR, it allows for essential patient management optimization. Nursing care facilities Since the major focus of rehabs, convalescent centers, halfway houses, and other organizations is not on treatment but on providing care, the software solutions they utilize are honed for this purpose. They excel at care coordination, staff collaboration, patient records and medication tracking, inventory and stock management, routine process automation, and cost optimization. Why choose DICEUS for healthcare software development While choosing among dozens of vendors to outsource your healthcare software development services, it is often hard to nail a reliable and qualified IT company. What makes DICEUS stand out from its competitors in the niche? In-depth medical expertise Developing software for the healthcare niche requires a high level of expertise. We are proud to have assembled the best team in our medical software development company, which includes experts who are skillful in the latest developments in the field and know how to use them in terms of a custom project effectively. As a result, our clients receive not just a working solution but a product that can significantly boost the productivity of the organization’s employees and reduce human risks. Wide tech stack We always keep our finger on the pulse of the healthcare IT market. This enables us to create products that help achieve advanced results in patient care, from submission processing to remote monitoring of health indicators. We also back up our health software development with constantly updated security measures, ensuring full compliance with the policies and specifications of medical secrecy, GDPR, etc. Focus on client’s success We provide IT services for the development of custom medical software with a focus on client needs and business growth prospects. That is why many of our solutions are created using the latest technology trends. In this way, we offer long-term competitiveness of your business in the local market backed up by dedicated regular further support. 100% reliability guarantee We guarantee the reliability and safety of the project throughout the whole work cycle. That is why our team, in addition to narrow-profile developers in the healthcare niche, also has experienced testers and a whole department of QA specialists. We also take care of the maximum transparency of your investments, helping to both save the project budget and ensure the maximum return on investment. Seamless integration For healthcare institutions or medical device manufacturers, it is mission-critical to organically blend novel technologies they onboard with their existing IT infrastructure. We implement smooth integration of the newly created healthcare software solutions with organizations’ ecosystems, ensuring all elements play well with each other and follow fast healthcare interoperability resources protocols. Adherence to regulatory compliance Data security is one of the cornerstones of software healthcare systems in the medical realm. The custom solutions we build manage patient data under stringent general data protection regulation (GDPR) and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliance, guaranteeing reliable patient data protection from unauthorized access and penetration attempts. Our healthcare software development process At DICEUS, we strictly keep up with project deadlines and always try to minimize development costs where possible. This is achieved through the following steps, which are a necessary part of our healthcare software services. Business analysis We always conduct end-to-end market research at the early stage of custom medical software development to determine the long-term prospects for the client’s business development. This helps us get the idea of what the top product on the market looks, feels, and works like in order to implement the best practices. Interface design Solutions created for a wide target audience require a thorough approach to UI development. That’s why our UI designers often resort to the most accessible design templates that allow non-tech-savvy users to get a good grasp of the end software. We never neglect the personal client’s wishes, finding compromises between convenience and the general vision of design. End-to-end testing Our QA team of specialists will create a list of test cases that will cover the software code of the developed solution far and wide. This helps us minimize bugs and prevent many potential flaws, which means that you won’t have to deal with a barrage of user complaints. Performance trials in the field As part of our health services software development, we always check the created software in the real operating environment on all types of compatible devices. This eliminates any risks associated with software incompatibility, which is critical for such a responsible type of business as healthcare. Tech support We strive for long-term relationships with our clients, offering post-releases tech support and advice. With us, you can always receive prompt technical maintenance for a launched solution or return it for the implementation of new features, integrations, and scaling. Some facts about us 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our tech stack Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage What customers say about us Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What software is used in healthcare? The best-known software solutions in the healthcare industry right now are applications from ClearCare, WebPT, Intergy EHR, eClinicalWorks, Practice Fusion. They are used by tens of thousands of hospitals around the world. In terms of custom clinical software development, we can help you integrate any such existing solution. Can DICEUS ensure standards compliance? HIPAA, IEC 62304, and ISO 13485 standards are imperative when developing apps in the medical and healthcare industry. That’s why we naturally take them into account when providing offshore healthcare software development. What are the services and solutions offered? We can build a complete MIS (Medical Information System) or HIS (Hospital Information System). We also create custom CRM and ERP systems, patient management apps, and solutions for centralized patient history management. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman