CRM consulting services A timely adopted, customer-oriented management system optimizes processes, enhances resilience, and boosts profitability in a highly competitive business environment. CRM consultancy by DICEUS helps clients from all walks of today’s global industries implement unique solutions powering your most ambitious goals. Get in touch Why choose DICEUS as your CRM consulting partner With DICEUS by your side, you get solutions for reliable automated control and complete business freedom created just for you at a reasonable rate. And we give you more advantages where that comes from, like: We guarantee solutions to most of the challenges our clients face. We leverage the experience of successfully implementing over 150 projects. We possess extensive experience in CRM development across various industries. We continuously expand our portfolio of consulting and CRM development projects. We assist in implementing the best quality management, risk, and security methods based on ISO 9001 rules. We are a certified Google Cloud and Microsoft partner. Request a free consultation Contact us, and our consultant will get back to you. Send request How DICEUS can help you with CRM Our in-house customer relationship management consultants help plan the implementation or enhancement of your CRM in line with your customer management strategy. As a result, you gain enterprise-wide process automation coupled with reliable, comprehensive analytics and retain a complete history of interactions with all your customers. Discovery phase We base our strategy and roadmap planning on meticulous marketing research to ensure maximum coverage of your target audience and deliver solutions tailored to your needs. For this, we conduct a detailed audit of your system and seamlessly integrate your brand and presence with customer interactions. Leveraging our in-depth experience in developing cross-industry CRM solutions, we unify your capabilities with an individualized approach that aligns with your business goals for effective competition in the market. Our solutions ultimately help boost sales, minimize excessive costs, and cut down on processing times. Custom CRM development Drawing from global experience in creating top-notch customer relationship management systems, we enable effective lead generation, sales funnel management, and customer lifecycle management. You will be able to attract leads based on key information about their activities across various channels, including social, digital, and mobile touchpoints. Our CRM implementation consulting services offer a unique customer interaction experience and a data repository capable of meeting your company’s unique needs for data collection from multiple channels, service personalization, and improved business operations efficiency. Legacy CRM modernization Our specialists thoroughly assess your current system’s challenges and potential, helping you prioritize and implement changes that significantly enhance your CRM’s value. We optimize the storage and organization of customer data, implement advanced analytics, automate processes, and ensure necessary integrations. Start leveraging capabilities that were previously out of reach. At the same time, we offer individual pricing that will quickly pay off. Customer retention has never been easier to handle and more reliable all-around. CRM migration Transitioning to a modern platform improves data quality, enables data-driven decisions, and enhances strategic planning through real-time analytics, automation, and artificial intelligence integration. You get to drive productivity and automate routine CRM tasks, allowing your employees to focus on strategic business tasks. Our consultants will help you transition to an advanced system without risks of data loss or corruption. One leveraging new relevant features and collecting more customer information. We guarantee the complete security of your current data and no downtime during the process. Our proven migration model works for you 24/7. CRM customization We offer the implementation of advanced tools based on personalized customer interactions. Customization contributes to improved operations and interdepartmental cooperation, providing a unified view of data with enhanced efficiency and return on investment capabilities. Convenient, user-friendly interfaces reduce training time, improve system usability, and provide multi-level data security against unauthorized access and cyber threats. Consulting CRM aspects, we help you to ensure compliance with data protection regulations such as GDPR and CCPA, assisting with legal data handling. CRM implementation We do everything to give you smoothly running, high-performance systems free from common inefficiencies. Our products are automated where possible to smooth out routine tasks, offering real-time data access and enabling our clients to focus on strategic work and faster decision-making. We offer unique algorithms and solutions that keep our clients one step ahead of competitors. You can employ our modern CRM architecture to benefit from cloud provider security measures, including regular audits, data redundancy, and disaster recovery capabilities. Can’t find the service you are looking for? Explore all services Want to discuss your project? Contact us CRM modules we build and implement We offer cutting-edge tools for optimizing and enhancing CRM functionality while ensuring 100% data integrity and security. Our custom modules fully align with the workflow aspects of businesses across relevant industries that deal with customer interactions and industry security standards. Operations We go beyond the vital aspects of your business, granting client flexibility with CRMs that address unique tasks related to marketing, sales, order processing, manager monitoring, competitor activity, lead acquisition and retention, auditing, A/B testing, email campaigns, notifications, and more. Your employees will accomplish more with less effort as we automate routine processes, configure scheduled notifications and templates for various communication scenarios, and introduce AI-based management. Collaboration Real-time reporting informs our clients about any events or nuances related to customer interactions. We ensure round-the-clock technical support and grant access to knowledge bases that enhance customer collaboration. Your CRM will become a unifying space for all customer data, accessible to all departments in your company. We will equip it with insightful activity feeds and chats for different teams to share ideas and collaborate on deals. Analytics Advanced analytics allows you to work with up-to-the-minute data. While a unified and advanced mechanism manages data exchange, you can segment customers, assess escalations, evaluate profitability, and plan trade campaigns intelligently using historical data. You will not have to deal with unprocessed customer data, and we will assist you in extracting valuable insights through customer segmentation rules, predictive modeling, and real-time performance analytics. Our achievements Our approach to CRM consulting We offer time-tested solutions empowered by years of experience in creating entirely unique systems. We explain the differences between platforms, allowing clients to choose the option that best suits their needs. CRM audit Becoming your CRM consulting company of choice, we kick off the collaborative workflow by analyzing your requirements. We thoroughly examine existing systems for functionality, performance, and vulnerabilities to develop corrective measures. We study the market, conduct comparative analyses of suitable options, conduct interviews, and create technical specifications. Understanding customer goals Then, we analyze the tasks your CRM system needs to address and develop workflows with ready-made or customizable features to support them. Technical specifications are coordinated with the direct involvement of the client representative, taking into account your preferences and desires. Recommendations We do not argue with clients. We persuade them with facts, revealing the hidden potential of CRM in their line of work. Our recommendations are always based on the best practices of creating and using similar systems. Our consultants offer only practical solutions that have repeatedly proven their effectiveness. CRM selection and customization The selection, configuration, and modernization of the appropriate system are carried out in close collaboration with the client. We always provide several options for you to choose from. We also consider expansion prospects, ensuring your system remains up-to-date. CRM integration We assemble all modules into a cohesive system, which can be integrated with other platforms, websites, IP telephony solutions, etc. All customer information is centralized in one place and supported by advanced tools, enabling efficient interactions. We also offer the ability to create criteria based on client priorities. Implementation The implementation process begins immediately after the client approves of the implementation plan. We will propose an algorithm that perfectly suits your needs. As a result, you will get an easily adaptable CRM system with a well-balanced data management mechanism and necessary integrations, making the workflow simple and intuitive for every team member. Deployment Before deployment, we introduce you to new features and, if necessary, offer a test version created based on an individual approach. You can assess the convenience and practicality of each element. The process is carried out under the vigilant supervision of our specialists, ensuring a successful conclusion. Employee training We never leave clients alone with tasks and issues, providing training materials to unlock the full potential of implemented solutions and conducting certification training for staff. The process starts during the preparatory stage of implementation and continues throughout the system’s lifecycle. Maintenance and support We value our clients, guaranteeing long-term technical and informational support and making sure your CRM is always in perfect working condition. Leverage our experience and capabilities to make your business better, stronger, more competitive, and cutting-edge! Some facts about DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Focus industries Banking Fintech Insurance Logistics Retail Healthcare Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 FAQ What are CRM consulting services? CRM consulting services help identify the need for CRM system implementation or migration to a new one, select the best platform, and seamlessly implement or transition to one. CRM consultants have experience with various solutions and can assess your requirements to offer choices that align with your criteria. Why do businesses need CRM consulting services? CRM consultations allow businesses to achieve a higher return on investment (ROI) from their new software, make partner relationships effective and cost-justified, understand the intricacies of process management, and avoid significant obstacles in customer relations. What are the key features of a good CRM consulting firm? A good CRM consulting provider must have: 1. Extensive knowledge base covering multiple platforms and various CRM options. 2. An objective perspective based on extensive experience and an advanced approach to implementing available CRM solutions. 3. Data security guarantees and no disruption to the client’s daily operations. 4. Offerings of change management recommendations and CRM implementation strategies. 5. A clear understanding of trends, enabling the application of best practices. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman