Custom API development services Reach us out What we offer DICEUS offers custom API development services to foster customers’ digital and online presence, providing an easy and convenient way to integrate different systems, platforms, and applications. We perform custom API integration enabling businesses to boost their digital capabilities with various bespoke solutions that meet their needs and requirements. Our custom API development is an excellent option for those looking to streamline and automate multiple digital activities and reach a wider audience while providing greater value and utility to their customers. Custom API development services Pinch and spread for zoom API development and coding DICEUS has many skilled programmers whose professional expertise covers every conceivable use case of custom API solutions developed for legacy systems of any stripe and color. Our developers are equally adept at building desktop, mobile, and cloud application APIs. As a result, we can significantly improve the performance and functionality of browsers, operating systems, web sockets, databases, firmware, and other possible programming products for which custom API development is technically executable. API testing and quality assurance Any custom-developed API never leaves our production environment without a complete testing cycle. As an experienced API integration company, we know exactly what behavior should be expected from any software in operation. We thoroughly test new features and functionality, ensuring the API meets all functional requirements. By performing load and stress testing, our QA engineers provide the API that can handle high volumes of traffic and user requests. Our security and penetration testing helps identify any potential vulnerabilities or security risks. API documentation and support Perfectly executed custom API integration is only half the battle. Assisting customers with handling the API-provided functionality is our critical responsibility. Our API documentation and support provide a transparent and reliable reference to how the API works. We help our customers achieve confidence by providing 24/7 on-demand support whenever needed. We prepare API documentation individually for each project to provide our customers a more holistic experience when working with the API. API management and security API management and security are critical components of any API development project that directly impact the final quality and success. We define, manage, and monitor the API performance to ensure everything goes efficiently. To ensure API security, we put in place measures and tools that prevent and mitigate potential risks and vulnerabilities that could lead to data breaches or leaks. Our custom API development includes management and security as vital components of building and deploying a successful and reliable solution. Integration with third-party apps and services Instead of reinventing the wheel by building new features, our customers benefit from API integration with third-party platforms and services, allowing for better customization of their projects. We provide custom API integration to make services and systems communicate more effectively. Such a modular approach is more scalable, being easily adjustable to suit business needs or user preferences. Advanced features and functionality, such as analytics and insights into app usage and data, appear accessible via various third-party API integrations. API monitoring and analytics We provide API monitoring and analytics to keep track of API activity. The collected data helps monitor and analyze the overall API health and insights into its performance, allowing for better decision-making and spotting potential problems. By closely monitoring an API, our developers and administrators reach greater visibility and insights into the API’s behavior and usage. We apply API analytics to improve the early identification, diagnosis, and subsequent fixing of potential performance issues. Legacy system modernization using APIs Integrating APIs into any legacy system can help accelerate digital innovation and modernization. We help businesses increase the accessibility, usability, and capabilities of their legacy systems, allowing for greater agility and functionality overall. The increased agility and flexibility, in turn, facilitate a business activity allowing for the digital transition to more up-to-date, robust, and dynamic operations. Our custom API development helps companies handle exponentially growing businesses better equipped to take on new challenges and expand beyond their original capabilities. DICEUS offers the entire scope of custom API development services allowing our customers to enhance their digital presence. Keeping pace with the digital epoch is tough without utilizing the experience and knowledge of software professionals. We know how to pass the narrow paths of rapid modernization via custom API integration that otherwise requires significant expenses and unaffordable time. Each of our API integration developers possesses unique expertise in using specific tools and technologies, allowing our customers to get whatever they need from custom API development. We are proud to bear full responsibility for the efficiency and performance of the solutions we develop. Nothing but a win-win strategy encourages us to provide our customers with numerous custom API development services. Reach us out Benefits of custom API development Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of custom API development There is always enough room for innovation, whichever legacy system is concerned. Global digital giants, with their powerful platforms and advanced services, are at everyone’s disposal. Everything remaining is to integrate their capabilities through APIs. The following advantages allow our customers to get a positive impact from custom API integration professionally performed by DICEUS. Increased efficiency and productivity Custom API development facilitates the automation and streamlining of specific tasks or processes, increasing efficiency and productivity. By eliminating manual operations that consume a lot of time and workforce, any company can better correspond to the furious pace of doing business in the digital environment. Following the operational zeitgeist is what custom API integration provides to companies and industries. Greater customization and flexibility Custom APIs allow for greater customization and flexibility regarding user experience and workflow. Customization is a mantra for modern marketers for a reason. An individual approach to various user audiences is challenging unless custom API integration helps a legacy system utilize numerous capabilities of third-party services. The achieved flexibility always increases the company’s value in users’ eyes. Improved customer satisfaction Custom API integration helps businesses to serve their users better, thus leading to more customer retention. The increased agility of operations brought by integrated APIs allows for an expanded range of services accessible to users. People appreciate dynamic businesses keeping pace with the times. Meeting customer expectations helps any company outperform competitors. Stronger brand image Brand awareness and business reputation are interdependent. They both gain momentum from satisfied customers who assess a business’s efficiency, responsiveness, and up-to-datedness. Building a stronger brand image is affordable through custom API integration, allowing any legacy system to meet the requirements of the present digital age without spending excessive effort and resources. Our API consulting and development process As an experienced custom API developer, DICEUS realizes that the success of any API consulting and development project lies in upfront planning and preparation. It is essential to take the time to carefully plan out and define scope and expectations throughout the process while also being agile and fluid enough to adjust and adapt as needed throughout the implementation and maintenance stages. Requirements gathering and planning The stage reflects how all parties get on the same page and ensure everyone is aligned on expectations and the overall scope and purpose of the project. It includes defining specific business needs and requirements and providing a detailed and comprehensive spec sheet of the desired features and capabilities. It is a crucial step in achieving a smooth and successful implementation and rollout of the final product, as well as establishing clear and detailed expectations early in the process to help guide the project throughout each stage of development. Design and development The design and development stage is where a lot of the heavy lifting and actual work of a custom API development and consulting project goes. At this stage, our team takes all the defined business needs and requirements gathered in the previous stage and starts turning them into a reality through specific design and development tasks. This is where a lot of the actual coding happens. Design and development is a crucial and detailed stage in the API consulting and development process that is always carefully managed to ensure a successful final product. Testing and documentation The testing and documentation stage is the penultimate step in the API consulting and development process, where the completed product is put through its pace via various tests and assessments. The stage includes testing and documenting everything from functionality to scaling and performance to ensure that the final product can stand up to real-world use. This is also where much feedback and insights can be garnered regarding further refinement and improvement, allowing for additional optimization and a better product overall. Implementation and maintenance After the previous stage, where the product has been thoroughly tested and vetted, the custom API development pipeline moves into the implementation and maintenance phase. The stage involves releasing the final product to the clients and providing maintenance and support as needed. It includes troubleshooting, bug patching, and adding or implementing further functionality or new features as new requests or ideas arise. DICEUS knows how important it is to continue supporting and maintaining the product to have good relations with the clients using the product. Reach us out What impacts your project duration As every custom API development project is individually designed, the following factors can impact your project duration: The scope and complexity of the project The availability of resources and staff Unforeseen roadblocks or delays Underdeveloped project specification Changes in the project requirements What affects your project costs Since custom API development implies no one-fits-all fixed pricing, the following factors determine how much your project can cost: The project priorities and customer expectations The technology stack and third-party subcontractors Additional costs, such as licensing The cooperation model, such as Time and Material Ongoing changes in project design What we need from your side We greatly appreciate collaborative interactions with our customers since mutual understanding drives any win-win strategy, as few other things do. We always remain transparent and open-minded about any idea shared by our clients. Our vast practical experience suggests that the following info delivered by our customers can significantly facilitate the custom API development process: A list of the desired features, functionality, and capabilities A clear budget for the current project A project timeline and milestones for different project phases Appointed staff responsible for the project from your side Any additional relevant data that could be useful in guiding the development process Our achievements Our tech stack Reach us out Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Frequently asked questions What is custom API development? Custom API development implies building, implementing, and deploying a unique and customized API specific to a business’s needs and requirements. With a custom API, companies possess customization and flexibility unattainable with more general and off-the-shelf solutions or platforms. Thus, custom API development enables businesses to achieve competitive advantages through greater automation, scalability, flexibility, and customization, all in service of the wider business and its long-term goals and objectives. What is the difference between API and custom API? The main difference between an API and a custom API is that a custom API is a unique and custom-built solution specific to the needs and requirements of the organization or business using it. A custom API can be designed to fit the particular needs and objectives of the client, providing greater flexibility and customization than an out-of-the-box solution. However, it is worth remembering that building a custom API can be more complex and expensive than using an existing ready-to-use solution or platform. However, a custom API’s unique benefits and capabilities can often compensate for those costs. What is custom API integration? Custom API integration connects and integrates a custom API with existing systems or applications to achieve a specific business objective or goal. It can involve connecting or integrating with any number of different platforms or applications, such as customer relationship management (CRM) platforms, enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, or back-office systems, to name a few. Custom API integration helps increase efficiency and cohesion across systems and applications while leveraging the unique capabilities and features of the custom API to achieve specific business needs or requirements. Similar services IT outsourcing services System integration services Custom software development services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman