Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Services provided Mobile app development Software architecture UI/UX design Dedicated team Industry Insurance Project overview UNIQA is an insurance company that contacted DICEUS to develop an iOS and Android-based mobile app for their customers. The project started with a discovery phase where we interviewed current mobile app users, learned about their challenges and pain points, and created buyer personas and user journey maps. Ultimately, requirements and mock-ups of the new mobile app were created and formalized for the development phase of the project. The main goal of the new app is to provide users with interactive features, user-friendly customer experience, and self-service capabilities so that more and more customers choose to use a mobile app instead of calling UNIQA’s call center. Client UNIQA Ukraine Team 13 members Country Ukraine Duration 1 year (July 2023 – July 2024) Client information UNIQA Insurance Company (non-life insurance) has operated in the Ukrainian market since 1994 and has been a member of UNIQA Insurance Group since 2006. For many years, the company has stably remained the leader in the Ukrainian insurance market. UNIQA Insurance is a universal insurer and provides insurance solutions for corporate and individual clients. The company has entered the top insurers in Ukraine and has a nationwide sales network. Business challenge UNIQA had the app, but customers didn’t want to use it because it was not good enough in terms of user experience and functionalities. The company wanted to create a new app that would meet customer expectations and provide seamless customer support and services online. Also, the company wanted to decrease the number of users who contacted the company via the call center. So, the new solution had to provide self-service capabilities and most of the necessary information in the app. It would reduce the workload on the call center and allow the insurance company to involve fewer operators for customer support. Technical challenges Firstly, some solutions we implemented, such as a symptom checker, required additional expertise in data mapping. Secondly, due to UNIQA’s preference to directly integrate the app with Siebel CRM (without any layers), we experienced some difficulties getting incorrect server errors to requests. Thirdly, our team also had to consider high security standards when developing mechanisms for processing personal data. Solution delivered DICEUS developed an iOS and Android-based mobile app called myUNIQA. It provides multiple self-service functionalities for customers, including scheduling doctor’s appointments, submitting doctor’s reports, ordering medicine delivery, and many more. MyUNIQA allows policyholders to store all their policies in one place, which is very convenient as you can easily find the necessary policy whenever needed. To manage their insurance and healthcare needs, users have multiple helpful features. An interactive symptom checker provides preliminary diagnoses based on the user’s input. To arrange an appointment with a doctor, customers can choose the desired clinic by sharing their location and selecting the preferred date and time. Instant online consultation is possible from any part of the world. Policyholders can keep their records up to date by submitting doctor’s reports through the app. They simply upload or take a photo of their diagnoses and prescription details, which will be reviewed by UNIQA’s medical assistance team to determine their insurance coverage and plan the next steps. The app also simplifies medication management, enabling customers to order prescriptions for pickup or delivery to their preferred address. Tracking lab exams prescribed by the doctor and receiving instant notifications about appointment statuses, reminders, and other essential updates ensure customers never miss a crucial step in their healthcare journey. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Policies Customers can find and view information about all insurance policies they have and activities associated with each policy in one place. For convenience, each insurance product has a color that corresponds to UNIQA’s brand colors, increasing the company’s brand awareness. Symptom checker (Avatar) One of the app’s most user-friendly features is scheduling appointments with doctors. Before visiting the doctor, customers can use an interactive symptom checker that allows users to enter their symptoms easily and receive preliminary information about potential diagnoses. Doctor’s appointment scheduling UNIQA’s customers can now make doctors’ appointments in the app. This feature allows users to choose their preferred clinic by sharing geolocation and selecting among the nearest medical facilities. Doctor’s specialization, the desired data and time can also be chosen. Doctor’s report submission After each doctor’s appointment, a customer should provide a doctor’s report on diagnosis, recommendations, and prescribed medications to UNIQA by taking a photo or uploading an image or another file. The inquiry will be processed and reviewed by UNIQA medical assistance to verify the level of insurance coverage and organize the next steps required. Telemedicine Teleconsultation can start immediately after the user approves he is ready to be connected to a doctor’s session. It is very convenient as customers can get this service from any part of the world. Service information After the inquiry is reviewed, the customer gets a report containing information about further consultations with other doctors, treatment, prescribed medications, the level of service coverage, and the service status. Medicine order Customers can pick up medications at the nearest pharmacy by sharing the address where they want to receive their medicine orders. The app provides all booking details: the address to pick up medicines or order delivery and the booking effective date and time. Notifications All notifications can be viewed in one place. Here, customers can see various status updates, reminders, and next steps required. So, customers always stay tuned and informed of their inquiry statuses. They get instant notifications about planned, canceled, or completed appointments. Value to our client Decreased workload on the call center With the app launch, customers can view their policies, related details, and history, check the coverage, report claims, make doctor’s appointments, upload and submit necessary documents. Thus, the insurance company can involve fewer operators to deal with phone inquiries. Reduced operational costs Digitized processes of claim submission and policy purchase, availability of information in the app, and more self-service for customers allow the insurance company to reduce operational costs. Increased revenue The mobile app serves as an additional sales and marketing channel. Customers of the insurance company can buy policies online, not only for themselves but for their family members. Improved customer loyalty Due to enhanced customer experience and the availability of various self-service functionalities, customers become more loyal, which increases customer retention rate and the company’s brand awareness. Our tech stack iOS Android Our other cases Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Insurance Cloud sales app for Insly Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman