Mobile application development Develop your mobile app today What we offer Our mobile application development solutions include various domains and topics. This service is about creating mobile applications for end-user smartphones, tablets, and other devices. In general, you can get full-cycle software development with all the necessary stages: business analysis, architecture planning, UI/UX design and prototyping, development, testing and QA, release with deployment or publication, and further tech support. If you need unique mobile application development, we’re ready to handle it. You can get solutions for iOS, Android, and more exotic mobile operating systems like Chrome OS, Tizen, or Ubuntu Touch. Apart from native solutions (developed for the specific platform), we provide hybrid and cross-platform mobile applications that work seamlessly on different devices. Don’t hesitate to contact us if you need to consult or order custom mobile development services. More precisely, the services provided by our mobile app company include: Android development Apps for wearables and smart gadgets Cross-platform development Extensions for web apps Integrations of modules iOS development MVP and POC development services Publications in app stores Corporate app development E-commerce app development Financial app development Game development Healthcare app development Maps and location app development Public app development Smartphones appeared and changed our life completely. Now, the tiniest phone is more powerful than the computers of the past. No surprise that mobile app development covers all our needs nowadays, from communication to work and leisure. That’s why businesses focus on mobile app development heavily, creating various solutions for individuals and other companies. If you want to get a brand-new mobile application, improve or redesign any existing tool, test demand with the MVP, or just consult about mobile app development services, you’re in the right place. We research, design, build, deploy, test, and support native, hybrid, and cross-platform mobile apps for Android and iOS. Our mobile app development company is focusing on effective solutions that meet the goals of our clients. You can reach us to get the first free consultation at any time. Develop your mobile app today Mobile app development services Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits from our app development services If you need professional mobile app development services, it’s better to carefully analyze all pros and cons. Compared to other cooperation options like freelance development or ready-made proprietary apps, our custom client-focused approach has a few advantages: Better engagement Well-thought mobile applications improve the customer experience. Thus, you can attract more clients, interact with them simpler, provide new services. Custom monitoring Using our in-house project control solution for mobile development – the Customer Portal – you have all data with metrics and updates under one roof. Fully tailored to your needs Custom mobile app development services meet your requirements and provide exactly what you need for your business. New revenue channels Combined, these benefits increase your profits. Customers appreciate responsive and personalized services provided via mobile channels. Our mobile app development process The process of custom mobile app development relies on the same standard-based principles as other dev options in DICEUS. We commit to Agile approaches but also have experience in Scrum, Kanban, Waterfall, etc. Thus, there are a few basic stages of any project, from a simple UI/UX redesign to full-stack app development services: Business analysis The first phase provides for a complete understanding of your requirements and the desired results. Based on this analysis, we define the scope, plan features, architecture patterns, and initial documentation, such as SRS. Product design The next big step includes end-to-end UI/UX design. You get basic wireframes, mockups, low- and high-fidelity prototypes. They show the app’s structure, graphics, interactive elements, other visuals, etc. Development The dev phase may start with the MVP or Minimum Viable Product that helps test user demand without spending much money. Further, we develop the final product for the target platform or platforms using the relevant tools. QA During all stages, our mobile application development company handles iterative testing sessions that show how the application meets your requirements. We perform various types of testing, including system, integration, usability, performance, etc. Deployment Finally, after everything’s developed and tested, it’s time to release the mobile app. Usually, it’s the client-side process, but we can assist with it. Also, we can publish your application to make sure that it’s accessible for users. Further support Publication and deployment often end the first process. But you can get regular tech support and maintenance, ask for extra changes or upgrades, order major or basic redesign services further. Develop your mobile app today What impacts your project duration The schedule of app development services depends heavily on some critical factors: Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition The available technologies and platforms Assistance with publication in app stores What affects your project costs With the total cost of your custom mobile app development, the situation is similar to schedules. The core factors are: Project scope and complexity The chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time and Material, Dedicated Team Post-launch extra requests like tech support What we need from your side App development services require cooperation for the best results. We know how to develop apps, test them, add or improve various features. But we can’t design tailored applications without your help: Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, e.g., software architecture and mockups A couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions Project deadlines Our tech stack Develop your mobile app today Explore our case studies Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Frequently asked questions What are mobile app development services? In a nutshell, mobile application development services include all the works related to software solutions for mobile/tablet systems. You can get personalized audit and business analysis, UI/UX design, prototyping, actual development, testing, training, assistance with app store publishing and deployment. Further support and technology maintenance are included, too. How much does it cost to develop a mobile app? The total costs of mobile app development services vary significantly depending on the project’s specifications. For example, if you need a plain time tracking tool, it’ll be much cheaper than a comprehensive enterprise mobile platform with multi-layer accesses, top security features, and high performance. How long does it take to create an app? The project’s duration depends on your needs and change requests, as well. We always guarantee to provide mobile application development services on time. However, the full schedule may vary. If you need one module with simple architecture, we can deliver it quicker than a large app with many features and/or constant upgrades. Similar services Custom software development services UI/UX design Enterprise mobile application development services Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman