Cookie Policy 1. Introduction This Policy applies to any websites, branded pages at third-party platforms (such as Facebook or YouTube), and apps accessed or used through such websites or third-party platforms (hereinafter, “Sites” or “DICEUS Sites”) which are operated by or on behalf of DICEUS. By using DICEUS Sites, you confirm our use of cookies in accordance with this Policy. If you do not agree to our use of cookies this way, you should set your browser settings accordingly or not use DICEUS Sites. If you disable cookies, this may affect your user experience on DICEUS Sites. 2. What are cookies? Cookies are files or pieces of information that may be stored on your computer (or other devices, such as a smartphone or a tablet) when you visit DICEUS Sites. This allows DICEUS Sites to distinguish your device from those of other users. A cookie will usually contain the name of the website the cookie has come from and the information on how long it will stay on your device, and the value, which is usually a randomly generated unique number. 3. How DICEUS Sites use cookies DICEUS Sites use cookies to identify your device and your interests, to remember your preferences, and to track how you use the Sites. We also use cookies and other tracking technologies to control access to our Sites, protect the Sites, and process user requests. To administer our Sites and for the research purposes, DICEUS Sites also incorporate a few third-party services to track and analyze statistical usage and the scope of information from users of the Sites. These third-party services use persistent cookies to help us improve user experience, manage content, as well as analyze how users navigate and use the Sites. Our cookies are used for the following goals: Technical These cookies are necessary to allow us to operate our Sites so you may access them as requested. For example, such cookies let us recognize that you have created an account and have logged in this account to access the Site content. These also include cookies which allow us to remember your previous actions within the same browsing session, and to secure the Sites. Analytics/Performance These cookies are used by DICEUS or a third-party service provider to analyse how the Sites are used and their performance. For example, they track the most visited pages, and where the visitors come from. They include, for example, Google Analytics cookies. Functionality These cookies let us operate the Sites in respect to the choices you make and actions you take. They allow us to remember your device in-between the visits. For example, our systems can recognize your username and remember how you customize the Sites and services (change the text size, fonts, languages and other configurable elements), and provide you the same customizations during the future visits. Third-party Advertising These cookies collect information about your activities on the Sites to provide you the targeted advertising. We may also allow our third-party service providers to use cookies on the Sites for this purpose, or to collect information about your online activities over time and across different websites. The third-party service providers, which generate these cookies such as Google, LinkedIn, and Facebook, have their own privacy policies and may use their cookies to target advertising on other websites, based on your visits to DICEUS Sites. 4. First-party and third-party cookies “First-party cookies” are cookies, which belong to DICEUS Sites, and located on your device. “Third-party cookies” are cookies, which another party places on your device through our Sites. DICEUS may contract third-party service providers to send emails to users who shared their contact information with us. To help measure and improve the effectiveness of our email communications, and/or to determine if users have opened the messages and have clicked the links, the third-party service providers may place cookies on the devices of these users. For more information on how third parties collect and use information on our behalf, please refer to their privacy policies. DICEUS Sites use the following types of cookies: – Persistent cookies to improve user experience on Sites. – Session cookies are temporary and removed at once from your device after your web browser is closed. We use session cookies to help us track the internet usage as described above. You may refuse to accept cookies by modifying the settings in your web browser. However, if you choose to do so, you might be unable to access certain content of the Sites. Unless you change your web browser cookies settings our systems will place cookies on your device when you visit DICEUS Sites. The data collected by the Sites and/or through cookies, which may be placed on your device, will be stored only as long as needed to fulfill the purposes mentioned above. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman