Dental booking app for major software provider Services provided UI/UX design Web app development Mobile app development Custom software development System integration Expertise used Cloud solutions Data warehouse and ETL Industry Healthcare Software product Project overview Mr. Lakhvir Singh Dhillon contacted us to help his company called Appsbusinesstore develop a modern booking mobile solution. Precisely, we were asked to create a simple but functional application that would allow customers schedule appointments in the dental clinic. The developed app is lightweight but leverages all the telemedicine advantages. Client Appsbusinesstore Team 4 members Country Norway Duration 6 months Client information Our main client Lakhvir Singh Dhillon was the software project manager at Appsbusinesstore at the moment of cooperation. This company handled development of mobile apps for different industries. Further, the brand was reorganized under the Rainmakers Innovation name but continued providing professional software development services. Business challenge This project is a story of close cooperation between several providers and clients. The main client company Appsbusinesstore was developing a booking application for the Norwegian dental clinics. In addition, the new software module had to work seamlessly with ProMed ERP. Overall, the core challenge here was to provide businesses and clients smooth and easy-to-use tool for booing appointments and smart queuing, increasing patient satisfaction. Technical challenges As we’ve mentioned, one of the tasks was to ensure seamless integration of all software pieces. For this, we had to ran complex app checks. We tested how the solution was connecting from initial request to IO sending, with and without proxy, and through ProMed API. These tests included XML configuration, general connection checks, handshaking checks, and user workflows. Solution delivered The developed mobile application combines several functionalities. Mainly, it’s an appointment scheduling tool. New and existing users can use a minimalistic interface to check the working hours of doctors and plan visits. Physicians also can check this info to optimize schedules. Moreover, the application helps with unorganized lines, allowing visitors stand in virtual queues with exact meeting time for each person. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Online appointment It’s easy to find any doctor and schedule a visit using one application. Visitors don’t have to call or go to clinics personally to register. Personal profiles All the registered users have their personal accounts with appointment history. It helps interact with dental clinics effectively. Core functions available Patients can easily book appointments, check doctors’ schedules, cancel meetings (not later than 24 hours prior), and get notifications. SSN validation For Norwegian clients, the application supports registration via local security numbers. It checks the validity of numbers and create accounts. Value to our client 3 user workflows For new users, existing users with previous appointments, and existing users without previous appointments, the app supports three different flows. It helps build personalized user experience. Smart queue Apart from online scheduling, patients can check in the waiting lists and queues, getting personal visit time slots. Doctors also can see the whole line online, so they have better experience, as well. Universal functionality The mobile app was developed for dental clinics but it also can be used by other businesses and clients, including but not limited to chiropractic cabinets, car dealerships and repair shops, hair dressers, etc. Our tech stack .NET Core Xamarin MySQL Angular Client feedback “DICEUS delivered exactly what we were looking for. The team jumped into the project quickly and created a simple mobile app with all the requested functions. Communication was regular and all our change requests were fulfilled.” Lakhvir Singh Dhillon Software Project Manager at Appsbusinesstore Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Project management Cloud-based project management solution Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman