Software development consulting services Get consulting on software development What we offer Software project success is possible thanks to correct functional and non-functional requirements gathered by professional business analysts, coherent planning, estimation of costs and necessary resources, technology stack choice. We offer comprehensive consulting on software development, including project strategy and launch. Software development consulting services Pinch and spread for zoom Project strategy and launch To successfully kick off your software project, you need to conduct an in-depth audit and analysis of your current IT infrastructure to detect challenges and gaps. The findings of a BA phase will help identify the right solutions to bridge those gaps you have. The project strategy ensures the smooth launch of software development. Usually, it includes choosing a tech stack, selecting the right skills, resources, tools, and methodologies to complete the project. Software development consulting We are a software development consulting company to define and build the most effective software development life cycle (SDLC) for your IT project. We will consult you on what project management methodology fits best, develop communication plans, select the right approach to reporting and analytics, choose all necessary metrics to measure software quality, and do many other things crucial to smooth and efficient project execution. System integration consulting We also provide consulting on system integration and modernization. These services include software audit, identification of current technical and business challenges, solution development. Our team is experienced in upgrading a wide range of IT systems for various industries, including core banking system upgrade, insurance management software modernization, healthcare system integration, etc. Besides, we are skilled in integrating new technology like AI, ML, RPA, IoT, Blockchain, and many more. Regulatory compliance We are one of a few software engineering consulting firms to provide consulting on regulatory and compliance of software for banking, insurance, healthcare, and some other industries. Today, regulations are one of the most pressing challenges lots of businesses face. Thus, we take this aspect into account while developing and integrating software for our customers. Consulting software development services are for you if you need to develop a software product but don’t know how to start, have no experience and required resources, don’t get what technology should be used. We are here to help you start your project, modernize existing systems, or integrate the latest technologies and help your business grow. Get consulting on software development Software development consulting Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of software development consulting services Expert IT consulting services can significantly reduce your software development costs, help avoid many mistakes and failures, minimize risks, and automate the entire development processes. Our team is always happy to provide customers with comprehensive recommendations, strategies, and documentation to gain successful outcomes. Optimized costs Our experts can consult you on the most cost-effective technologies, tools, platforms to harness in order to accomplish the project. They will recommend alternatives to expensive solutions available on the market or provided by our developers for you not to reinvent the wheel. Formalized strategy Have no appropriate knowledge to start the project? We will discover and formalize your requirements, prepare a technical proposal, estimate time and cost, select team composition. To try how it works, you could book a 30-minute free strategy session with our experts. Organized development The scope of software development consulting services also includes recommendations on the most suitable project management methodology, tools to use, communication plans, metrics, which will definitely make your development process organized. Guaranteed outcomes We guarantee successful outcomes of software development consulting as our services are provided by certified and highly-skilled experts with a strong background in software engineering and various business domains. Our software development consulting services You might think of hiring software development consulting firms to automate your operations, upgrade existing systems, resolve issues with performance, flexibility, and scalability. We have a well-organized consulting process comprising analysis of your business, strategy creation, support options, and managed end-to-end development if needed. Discovery We start consulting with a discovery phase. It means we will need a few hours of your time to detect your current challenges and technical gaps, project goal, and vision. Strategy Our experts can help you develop a project roadmap and timeline, including Work Breakdown Structure, where the project scope is divided into smaller parts. Support Our tech leads and developers can support your software development efforts by extending your internal teams and contributing to the development process. Development We offer proof of concept or minimum viable product development to verify your project ideas. We also provide end-to-end custom development of complex enterprise-level systems. Look through our services list to find the service that fits your needs best. Get consulting on software development What impacts your project duration Consulting services time depends mostly on the complexity of your project. On average, it can take from several hours to several days. Your project or processes complexity Type of consulting Number of experts involved in consulting Pre-defined documentation Pre-defined activities What affects your project costs The price of software development consulting services will also depend on a variety of factors you can see in the following list. Project scope and complexity Required experts Urgency What we need from your side We will need a few hours of your time to provide answers to our questions and discuss all the challenges your business faces. Here is a list of other things we will need from you. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project documentation if available A couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions Our achievements Our tech stack Get consulting on software development Explore our case studies Financial services Software Audit for Wilson & Franco Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Frequently asked questions What is a software development consulting? Software development consulting is provided by external specialists, often by outsourcing companies, for customers in need of expert IT advisory. It may include software audit, software support, custom development, testing, and many other IT-related services. When can you need this type of consulting? You might need IT consulting if you need to streamline your software development processes, or you have no sufficient resources, skills, and knowledge to start an IT project on your own. What are the benefits of IT consulting? IT consulting has many advantages: you can be sure that your project has an appropriate strategy developed by professionals, the best suitable technology stack, and a well-defined roadmap. Similar services System integration services Software support Software audit Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman