Custom artificial intelligence software development AI-powered solutions are quickly becoming part and parcel of business operations across various industries. DICEUS, as a leading custom AI software development company, will help you embrace advanced technologies to drive business growth and obtain a competitive edge over your rivals. Get in touch Estimate project Our custom AI software development services Seasoned AI experts of DICEUS offer a wide range of artificial intelligence development services that can cover all the needs of a contemporary digitally driven organization concerning the creation and functioning of intelligent systems as vital elements of your shop floor pipeline. Consulting on AI software If you are planning to harness AI technology for a specific task or already employing AI capabilities in your existing systems, our competent specialists can provide qualified advice and help in use case identification, tech stack selection, security and compliance of custom AI solutions, AI-driven data analysis, AI ethical considerations, AI model training, instructing your personnel in using cutting-edge solutions, and more. AI-based software development This is the centerpiece of our AI services. We perform first-rate custom app development, build virtual assistants and other conversational AI products, deliver natural language processing tools, and create adaptive learning platforms and other industry-tailored solutions that take your internal workflow to a new level. Testing and quality assurance Testing and QA are usually pivotal elements of any AI development project. However, our experts offer QA and testing as a separate service, ensuring AI models work smoothly and the artificial intelligence product has no bugs that hamstring its performance. Integration services As a rule, organizations have a fully-fledged IT ecosystem they want to augment with generative AI solutions. We implement a thorough AI integration, guaranteeing seamless interaction of all components of the company’s IT environment where AI models play well with CRM, ERP, professional apps, and other enterprise software. Get a professional consultation on your AI-related project! Send request DICEUS expertise in AI development services Artificial intelligence is an umbrella term that includes multiple related technologies. Our custom AI development covers the following domains. AI use cases Pinch and spread for zoom Computer vision This is a second-to-none instrument for seeing something and analyzing what you see. Our AI developers create top-notch AI algorithms capable of gathering and organizing visual data, localizing each object that comes into a digital camera’s view, enhancing the picture, detecting the event, etc. Image recognition This is a subdomain of computer vision that goes beyond simple image identification; it classifies and labels objects belonging to different categories. We develop personalized solutions honed for recognizing objects, vehicles, logos, and people with their peculiar facial features, body postures, and skeletal structures. A special type of picture recognition AI projects deals with analyzing medical images (MRI, CT, etc.). Machine learning Machine learning techniques enable smart systems to enrich their expertise and performance accuracy by finding patterns in the input data and thus acquiring new knowledge. The machine learning models we create receive proper training, learning from relevant and consistent business data in our customer’s industry niche. Business intelligence The multitude of data a company operates in its pipeline routine can be of any use only if it is adequately processed and analyzed. Developing AI solutions in the business intelligence sector, our data scientists and AI specialists focus on unlocking the potential of the available data and building predictive models, enabling organizations to receive actionable insights into customer behavior and workforce performance. Benefits of AI-powered software By harnessing AI-driven digital tools developed by high-profile tech companies, organizations are ushering in numerous improvements in their shop floor operations. Unbiased decisions Artificial intelligence is unfettered by emotions and prejudices. That is why it can make impartial decisions in such spheres as HR management, employee recruitment, fraud detection, loan granting, and more. Robotic process automation All repetitive tasks and workflows are delegated to machines, lessening human personnel’s workload and freeing them to tackle more complex or creative assignments. Enhanced efficiency and productivity Businesses optimize the lion’s share of their pipeline processes—from supply chain and inventory management to production cycle and equipment maintenance. As a result, their productivity and efficiency soar, positively impacting their revenues. Personalized customer experiences AI enables enterprises to increase their service quality drastically by providing personalized recommendations and tailored products after analyzing the clientele’s individual behavior, preferences, and pain points. Such a targeted approach boosts customer satisfaction and fosters brand loyalty. AI software development process As a qualified AI development company with extensive knowledge in the realm, DICEUS has devised a six-step strategy for implementing AI projects. Step 1. Discovery phase It lays the foundation for the successful delivery of any project. Our experts meet the customer’s representatives to learn all relevant information concerning the partner’s company, its specifics, target audience, and business goals, as well as their expectations regarding the future solution. Then, we analyze the requirements and make a high-level scope of the project. Step 2. Project setup With all necessary data at our fingertips, we devise a comprehensive project roadmap that includes the selection of the tech stack, the choice of the development team, key design concepts, preparation of documentation, optimal engagement model, project cost estimation, the project schedule with major milestones, and clear-cut deliverables. Step 3. Development We start this core phase by building the prototype and then the first fully functional version of the product. The Agile methodology we rely on during the SDLC allows us to deliver each iteration of the product quickly and efficiently, report to the customer on the project’s current state, and let them review the result. Step 4. Quality assurance In fact, internal checks are conducted after each iteration. But when the solution is completed, we submit it to a complex of various manual and automated tests (unit, compatibility, functional, performance, security, usability, accessibility, and more) to ensure seamless and bug-free operation of the software. Step 5. Release After thorough testing, the solution is deployed to the environment of its functioning, integrated with other elements of the ecosystem, and goes live. During the process, we perform knowledge transfer, solve possible issues, and collect feedback on the initial stages of the product’s operation. Step 6. Post-deployment support As a responsible vendor, DICEUS stays with customers as long as they need to conduct continuous software monitoring, fine-tune the system, fix bugs, address issues, introduce updates, and consult users on the solution’s functionalities and peculiarities of its operation. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Our case studies Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Social media Business networking social platform Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What is custom AI software development, and why is it essential for businesses? Custom AI software development is the process of creation and implementation of bespoke AI-powered digital products. By commissioning a tailored solution from a vetted IT vendor, organizations receive a first-rate product that fits their unique technical requirements to a tee and dovetails into the business strategy they have in place. How can AI services implementation benefit your business? By embracing the power of artificial intelligence, companies usher in workflow automation, reduce employee workload, improve decision-making, enhance productivity and efficiency, reduce OPEX, streamline and facilitate data handling, boost predictive analytics, and create personalized customer experiences for their clientele. Which industries can benefit from DICEUS’s AI services? During its 13+ years of presence in the IT outsourcing market, DICEUS has successfully accomplished dozens of projects for banking, fintech, insurance, retail, healthcare, logistics, and construction enterprises. As a result, we have acquired an in-depth understanding of the pipeline nitty-gritty in these fields and essential skills in delivering projects of any kind across all of them. What is DICEUS’s AI-driven software development process? We begin by learning all project requirements and discovering the use case of the future solution. Then, we outline a project roadmap that specifies the team, the tech stack, the schedule, the cost, the engagement model, and the deliverables. Next comes the coding phase, which is followed by testing and quality assurance. Finally, the product is deployed and starts working, with our experts providing support and maintenance services along the way. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman