Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · AI · 9 min. read · 1810 reads · 25 Oct 2024 22 Nov 2024 Data analytics and artificial intelligence: Essentials Today, cutting-edge AI tools are employed in many real-world applications across multiple spheres, pushing the technological envelope in pipeline operations, business intelligence, problem-solving, and customer service of various organizations. However, since such shop floor activities rely on large volumes of historical data, this technology is increasingly essential in all operations related to data management and processing. We have already explored leveraging AI models in data engineering . In this article, we will dwell on the role of AI-powered software in data analysis, its benefits, use cases, implementation challenges, and the prospects of utilizing powerful AI analytics tools and generative AI by data scientists. AI data analysis made plain Given the vast amounts of unstructured data modern businesses operate in their workflow, one can’t imagine the contemporary data analytics landscape without advanced natural language processing mechanisms and machine learning algorithms provided by disruptive artificial intelligence solutions. Thus, the usage of AI for data analytics boils down to the application of these high-end tools by data analysts in exploratory data analysis involving large datasets from multiple sources. It allows them to obtain meaningful insights into consumer behavior or personnel performance and fathom future trends that will soon shape the contours of the industry. How is it done? AI-fueled deep learning algorithms are capable of becoming more sophisticated through processing training data and prior experience, analyzing data fed to them to perform anomaly detection, and identifying trends across datasets. Then, data science experts transform the received results into valuable insights that are further utilized by decision-makers in solving complex tasks they confront in their pipeline routine, such as statistical modeling or sentiment analysis. What are the most popular shop floor operations where AI-driven data analytics excels? Zooming in on AI data analytics use cases In data analytics, AI brings the most value when leveraged to solve the following specific tasks. AI models Pinch and spread for zoom Data collection. This is the first step in any data analysis. AI systems can sift through various data sources (social media comments, customer reviews, sales transactions, or other text data), extract relevant information, and accumulate it in a secure storage place. Data cleaning. Raw data abounds in inconsistencies, redundancies, outliers, empty values, errors, and other inadequacies that adversely impact the speed and quality of analysis. AI provides different tools that perform automated data preparation and normalization to enable satisfactory analysis. Data processing. This is where properly trained machine learning models dissect the information, reveal correlations, extract insights, pinpoint patterns, and provide business intelligence. Data entry. AI’s image r ecognition capabilities allow employees to automate the processing of pictures, spreadsheets, and documents (especially those containing tables), identify necessary textual data, and convert it into digital datasets. This feature is highly instrumental in healthcare, where specialists deal with large quantities of MRIs, X-rays, and other images. Data visualization. Data insights become more comprehensible if they are presented in an easy-to-grasp format. AI arranges analysis results as interactive charts, graphs, reports, and dashboards, giving analysts simple prompts that can be understood even by employees with limited technical skills. Data creation. AI can not only analyze existing information but also create new datasets. Generative AI tools can produce synthetic data for machine learning model training. Gartner predicts that such data will dominate the AI model training routine by 2030. Code generation. AI mechanisms can generate code blocks or complete the existing code lines in various programming languages. Such capabilities streamline and facilitate not only data analysis but also software development efforts. Predictive analytics. While data analytics performed by traditional methods is good at interpreting historical and new data, AI-powered tools also allow for accurate forecasting. Their predictive models find patterns in the analyzed data to anticipate seasonal sales decreases, market fluctuations, and other future developments. Decision-making processes. By getting answers to various business questions from AI analytics tools, CEOs and rank-and-file employees can make accurate and relevant data-driven decisions, avoiding pitfalls and mitigating risks. What benefits do data and computer science experts receive when they apply AI in these and other use cases? Experiencing a lack of technical expertise and skills? Connect with a professional team to address your project challenges. Contact us Showcasing the advantages of AI-driven data analytics DICEUS’s top-notch expertise in AI consulting allows us to pinpoint the following perks of employing AI-powered software for data analytics initiatives. benefits of AI data analytics Pinch and spread for zoom Enhanced efficiency and speed. AI works faster than the human workforce, furnishing analysis results in split seconds. Such real-time insights provide flexibility in decision-making and shorten reaction time, which is mission-critical in risk prevention. Moreover, with the enormous amounts of data to be analyzed, this characteristic of artificial intelligence becomes the major efficiency differentiator in the competitive business landscape of the 21 st century. Fact-checking and validation. AI tools exclude the impact of the human factor on data processing, guaranteeing the absence of errors, inaccuracies, and inconsistencies across datasets. Thus, thanks to AI, you get more reliable data analytics and business intelligence outcomes. Democratization of data handling. AI assistants make data analytics a breeze, even for inexperienced user audiences. Leveraging NLP-fueled chatbots that require a smooth learning curve for handling, non-tech personnel of organizations across various industries can analyze complex datasets on a high professional level. Automation of report generation. Instead of manually creating individual reports for each analysis instance, employees delegate this time- and effort-consuming assignment to AI-driven software. Moreover, such reports are promptly delivered to all stakeholders, boosting cooperation within and between teams and promoting knowledgeable decision-making. OPEX reduction. Companies save a lot on expenditures related to keeping competent data management personnel on their regular payroll. They are replaced by intelligent mechanisms and solutions that attend to the same responsibilities, performing tasks much faster and more accurately. Improved customer satisfaction. Efficient data processing and analysis boosts an organization’s productivity, efficiency, and quality of services, which increases customer satisfaction, fosters brand loyalty, and hones the company’s competitive edge. You can enjoy all the above-mentioned assets of AI-powered data analytics only if you successfully address challenges related to harnessing this innovative technology. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us AI data analytics: Top obstacles to overcome Our experience in delivering and implementing AI-fueled solutions shows that businesses must watch for pitfalls and bottlenecks they will encounter while embracing AI data analytics. challenges of AI for data analytics Pinch and spread for zoom Substandard data quality Accurate and relevant analysis outcomes critically depend on the quality of input data. To provide the adequate quality of analyzed or training data, experts in the area should ensure completeness, validity, integrity, consistency, understandability, and conformity of information fed to AI algorithms by conducting comprehensive data cleaning and formatting procedures. Data security and privacy Organizations operate huge masses of business and customer information, the lion’s share of which is sensitive. That is why the best security practices should come to the forefront. Data handling personnel should protect the data from unauthorized access and provide effective mechanisms (such as multifactor authentication and high-end encryption) against leakages and system penetration attempts. Regulatory compliance This is a related challenge. Data safety is not only a prudence consideration but also a legal requirement in many verticals. If your organization operates in insurance, finance, banking, or healthcare, its IT activities should comply with stringent data protection regulations (CCPA, HIPAA, GDPR, etc.). Adhering to ethical practices As a novel technology, artificial intelligence raises multiple ethical questions in its application. Working with data, you should align your activities with moral norms and guidelines, keeping your eyes skinned for the transparency and accountability of training models’ functioning, as well as provide fairness and the absence of bias in datasets utilized in the process. Lack of qualified workforce The implementation of any pioneering know-how requires competent professionals. However, training such specialists in sufficient numbers lags far behind the meteoric speed of AI’s advent into multiple aspects of our lives. Moreover, the fast-paced development of the domain is a challenge for existing technicians who must constantly keep abreast of the latest innovations in this field. Successful onboarding of AI data analytics solutions presupposes not only dealing with challenges. You should also be aware of the dominant trends in the sector today, tomorrow, and beyond. Future trends in AI data analytics What are the major development prospects in the realm of AI-driven data analytics? Evidently, data analytics will become accessible to a larger user audience that hasn’t received in-depth specialized training. On the one hand, it spells less job security for data analysts who will have to acquire additional skills (particularly related to various competencies in working with AI, ML, NLP, and other disruptive technologies) to stay competitive in the market. On the other hand, a lower access threshold will attract many non-tech experts who will learn to handle AI models and analytics mechanisms. Such comprehensive adaptability and skill shift will definitely reign supreme in data analysis. However, in the foreseeable future, we can’t see the total replacement of human personnel by smart machines in any IT sector, and data analysis is no exception. At present, AI-powered software is viewed as an augmentative force, not a substitute for specialists who will still solve all pivotal tasks involving critical thinking, strategic decision-making, creativity, and effective communication. To make the most of AI data analytics tools, you should entrust their development and implementation to vetted professionals in the field. DICEUS has seasoned experts who know all the ins and outs of AI development and data analysis. Contact us for a first-rate data analytics solution to revolutionize your organization’s data handling routine and usher disruptive innovation into your daily shop floor activities. Conclusion With enormous amounts of various data to process, modern organizations can’t hope to cope with this ordeal, relying on outdated data handling mechanisms. AI-driven analytics tools can swiftly and accurately extract relevant data from multiple sources, analyze it, and present results in the comprehensible format of interactive charts and dashboards. Such active involvement of artificial intelligence enables businesses to increase the efficiency and speed of their workflows, improve decision-making routines, get access to predictive analytics, automate report generation, and curtail operating expenditures. You can maximize the value of embracing AI data analytics software by addressing the critical challenges of its implementation and hiring competent professionals to develop custom AI analytics tools tailored to your organization’s unique business and technical requirements. Frequently asked questions Why is AI important in data analytics? Today, organizations obtain and process vast amounts of business and customer data. Analyzing it manually is a time- and effort-consuming ordeal characterized by slow progress and numerous errors. High-end AI analytics tools enable data experts to collect, clean quickly, and process data in large quantities, visualizing results in easy-to-comprehend reports, charts, and dashboards. How does AI improve speed and efficiency in data analytics? AI-fueled analytics tools solve multiple complex tasks in a split second, instantly providing error-free and understandable analysis results. Thus, by using AI, organizations streamline and facilitate data processing extremely, gaining a competitive edge over their old-school rivals who still rely on traditional data handling workflows and solutions. How does AI help explain complex data analysis results? To make analytics comprehensible even for non-specialists in the field, AI-powered tools visualize data analysis outcomes in easy-to-understand formats. The trends and anomalies they pinpoint are presented via charts and graphs, turning them into valuable insights leveraged in data-driven decision-making. Can AI help create interactive dashboards and reports? This is what AI analytics software excels at. These visual presentation means of analysis results make all trends and developments conspicuous to data processing personnel and critical decision-makers of an organization who can take timely steps aimed at increasing the company’s efficiency and boosting its customer-facing activities. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents AI data analysis made plain Zooming in on AI data analytics use cases Showcasing the advantages of AI-driven data analytics AI data analytics: Top obstacles to overcome Future trends in AI data analytics Conclusion Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles AI 5 min. read · 07 Feb 2024 25 Nov 2024 Insurance analytics and artificial intelligence AI 10 min. read · 24 Oct 2024 22 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence for data visualization: How to use AI in 2025 AI 19 min. read · 27 Jun 2024 21 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence in banking: Role and impact for the industry AI 6 min. read · 16 Feb 2024 21 Nov 2024 Artificial intelligence and fraud detection software in insurance AI 13 min. read · 27 Aug 2024 09 Apr 2025 Artificial intelligence in customer service: Main advantages and real examples Fintech 10 min. read · 23 Aug 2024 17 Feb 2025 Artificial intelligence in finance: Top advantages and use cases All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman