Custom artificial intelligence model training For contemporary IT-driven organizations, relying only on human intelligence and ignoring the power of artificial intelligence spells lagging hopelessly behind their more innovation-driven competitors. However, to bring maximum value to the company and revolutionize its business processes, the machine learning (ML) and AI models it leverages should be properly trained. DICEUS performs training AI models based on high-quality training data and advanced methods to make your professional AI platform tick. Talk to expert Send requirements Our AI model training services Even the most sophisticated generative AI models known as foundation models are, in fact, high-end pattern matchers. To be able to understand the material and recognize context, machine learning models should be taught to do it. Our seasoned data engineers, well-versed in such training jobs, will employ adequate datasets and cutting-edge software tools to coach your ML models in analyzing data points, identifying patterns, and producing accurate results. Audio data model training We employ audio datasets of sufficient volume and exceptional quality (including human speech in multiple languages, music, sound effects, and more) to train chatbots, natural language understanding and translation models, music genre recognition systems, and audio signal identification solutions. Image data model training Our huge library of images contains a wide range of pictures featuring humans (including various activities and people’s faces expressing a range of emotions), animals, plants, objects, etc. Using them as inputs, we train image recognition algorithms to be utilized in autonomous vehicles, security and surveillance systems, medical diagnostic solutions, retail inventory management, and more. Video data model training We train models on the material of various video files (annotation services included) to let AI software locate objects, identify them with perfect accuracy, and make decisions. The use cases of such computer vision systems cover self-driving cars, manufacturing lifecycle control, crop and livestock tracking, environment monitoring, etc. Text data model training To let the AI-powered solution understand and interpret human language, we leverage various handwritten and digital resources across various languages. As a result, ML-driven mechanisms can conduct machine translation, perform text classification (regarding its genre, style, author, etc.), determine sentiment, recognize the named linguistic entity, and more. Let’s discuss your needs in AI model training! Send request Benefits of AI training for businesses By implementing out-and-out training of AI models, IT-driven companies can enjoy the following boons. AI model training Pinch and spread for zoom Improved decision-making After an adequate grooming on relevant data, AI models can generate more accurate results, enabling effective data-driven decisions related to multiple aspects of organizations’ shop floor routine. Boosted workflow efficiency High-end AI-fueled systems can automate the lion’s share of the employee’s repetitive tasks, cut down on paperwork, and streamline pipeline operations, thus stepping up the enterprise’s overall efficiency. Enhanced customer experience The increased power of AI mechanisms to analyze customer behavior, detect their preferences and pain points, identify patterns, and predict trends allows for providing personalized customer experiences, augmenting client satisfaction, and fostering brand loyalty. Competitive edge With the internal pipeline functioning smoothly and customer satisfaction on a high level, a company relying on efficient AI models obtains a considerable advantage over its rivals in the niche and stays ahead of the curve at every turn. Why choose DICEUS Training artificial intelligence models via employing advanced ML frameworks and vast training data sets is a no-joke endeavor that should be entrusted to vetted specialists in the domain. What makes us sure DICUES qualifies for this task? Highly competent personnel. Our qualified and certified developers and engineers possess vast theoretical knowledge and multiple hands-on hard and soft skills to tackle an AI-related project of any scope and complexity. Expertise across various industries. During our presence in the high-tech outsourcing market, we have delivered numerous solutions for organizations in insurance, healthcare, banking, fintech, construction, retail, and other sectors, which allowed us to learn the nitty-gritty of their workflows and shop floor processes. Working with custom models. Each enterprise has its target audience, business goals, and data security requirements and access policy. We practice custom training, devising models in multiple languages if necessary for each specific case. Client-focused approach. The satisfaction of our partners is the ultimate aim for us to steer by. We offer flexible engagement models and communication schedules, as well as continuous support, to meet our customers halfway and ensure comfortable cooperation between the parties. AI model training pipeline For every specific instance, we create a unique model training roadmap. However different, such plans always consist of four basic steps. Data curation This is a preliminary phase during which we collect relevant data from multiple sources and contributors. The usefulness of the data is guaranteed by ensuring it is diverse, accurate, consistent, representative, understandable, and well-annotated. Algorithm selection Unless the training algorithm is chosen correctly, the training procedure can’t be successful. To make the right choice, we consider the use case where it will be applied and the goals it is called to achieve. Training and evaluation This is the core element of the ML training pipeline. Here, the collected data is employed in iterative training, accompanied by fine-tuning and evaluation to obtain the best-in-class AI model. Deployment and monitoring When the model goes live, we perform its continuous monitoring to ensure its adequate performance, optimize its operation, expose and address potential issues, and introduce necessary adjustments. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Customer feedback Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our cases Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Social media Business networking social platform Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Frequently asked questions How do AI models get trained? First of all, you need to collect a large dataset of accurate, relevant, consistent, diverse, understandable, and representative data with clear annotations. After opting for the suitable algorithm, you embark on the training process, during which the system’s efficiency is continuously monitored, tested, assessed, and fine-tuned. Then, the completed solution is deployed, but the training team should be there to optimize its functioning, address issues, and make adjustments. What are AI model training services? They cover the entire process of training AI- and ML-fueled systems to enable them to analyze the input data, pinpoint patterns in them, and make the right conclusions. Depending on the nature of the input, such services can cover audio, video, image, and text data training algorithms. What tools and technologies are commonly used for AI model training? The choice of the toolset for AI model training is largely conditioned by the project’s goals and requirements, the integration potential of the solution to be built, the competence and preferences of the tech team, and other factors. The most popular frameworks and resources applied for this purpose include TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, Scikit-learn, ML.NET, Accord, Catboost, and others. How can you optimize the AI model training process? The best practices of AI model training workflow include careful data curation, ensuring correct annotation, opting for the suitable training model, rigorous model validation, systematic hyperparameter tuning, and maintaining straightforward documentation. You should begin with small datasets, gradually increasing their volume and constantly monitoring the training procedure. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman