Iryna Kravchenko Chief Editor Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Technology · 20 min. read · 20279 reads · 11 Mar 2025 20 Mar 2025 CRM modules list: Features for effective customer relationships What are the summands of success in the sales business? Every entrepreneur knows you must attend dozens of things to see the gravy train arrive at your stat eventually. You should hire professionals and maintain a team spirit, deal only with high-quality goods and services, constantly expand your product line, regularly hold promotion campaigns, thus enhancing brand awareness, provide prompt shipment, and whatnot. However, these are just prerequisites to attain your goal: customer satisfaction. This article covers the importance of having essential CRM modules for effective customer relationships. In the days of yore, vendors communicated with clients through personal contacts and utilization of extensive collections of data. That helped them trim their sails to the volatile winds of customers’ tastes and guide the company ship to the bonanza shore. The advent of digitalization has drastically changed sales processes, taking customer support and service to a new level. We got used to the software tools utilized with that objective, in that the question “What is CRM management?” can now be heard only from most backward vendors. However, being familiar with the name, many entrepreneurs don’t realize the necessity of introducing this system. Need professional consulting on CRM development, implementation, or modernization? Check out our CRM consulting services. Getting to grips with merchant-customer interaction: Challenges to overcome Once you learn how to retain your current customers and engage new ones, your financial triumph will not be late. Thus, interaction with the customer base (both present and prospective) helps your company not just precariously survive in the oversaturated and highly competitive market but turn into a big-time venture reaping revenues aplenty. The overarching purpose of this interaction is to get an insight into clients’ purchasing behavior and fine-tune (or even overhaul) your business strategy and tactics to pander to all possible needs of your customers. And what is CRM in sales but an effective tool to excel in understanding the most profound motifs of your clientele? Yet, discovering your clients’ purchasing habits and preferences is only the first stage of capitalizing on improved customer relations. This information should be further employed for profiling and grouping them according to various criteria to adopt an effective marketing policy and boost sales. So, the more data you collect, the better you can plot your action. However, amassing the information in great amounts may cause some problems. Learn more about CX: Customer journey mapping: Unlock the secrets of stunning customer experience Meeting customers and talking to them in person yields tons of handwritten stickers, memos, or mental notes inside the reps’ heads. This flood of unstructured information creates chaos. Thus, valuable details get lost, forgotten, or misplaced, so prioritizing customers and their interests proceeds randomly with a heavy reliance on guesswork. No matter how abundant the information obtained by your reps during face-to-face interaction with clients might seem, the communication channels ushered by the pervasive digitalization turn that inflow of data into a deluge. Customers ask questions, follow up on orders, inquire about discounts, give specifying details about their prospective purchases, and contact you via various platforms (phone, e-mail, social media, website, app). Given the profusion of ways data arrives, it is easy to imagine how challenging it is to keep it all from getting lost, mishandled, or confused, but instead have it classified, stored, and retrieved on short notice when the need arises. Even if you manage to save the data coming in overwhelming quantities from different quarters, it is still a job of work to make sense of it, and if it is attainable, then the time spent (or wasted?) on it renders all efforts not worth it. Thus, with the amount of information this huge, it is next to impossible to extract relevant intelligence promptly, so your customers are doomed to slow and dissatisfactory responses, if at all. These challenges may seem daunting, yet the technological progress that brought along the remedy – software systems honed to provide effective solutions to such issues. And CRM is one such tool. Key CRM modules Pinch and spread for zoom What should a good CRM do? What is CRM in the business of the early second millennium? CRM meaning a sine qua non for any sales venture aspiring to enter the major league of blue-chip enterprises in the field. Without such platforms, companies would be unable to adapt their business to efficiently cater to the needs and demands of their clients. Thus, there is a strong correspondence between CRM functions and processes pertaining to interaction with customers that companies need to streamline. Customer relationship management software is a comprehensive system honed to manage client data and facilitate and streamline customer interactions with the company. Originally sales force automation (SFA) solutions leveraged exclusively by sales teams, modern CRM systems have evolved into one-stop-shop platforms utilized by personnel enterprise-wide in workflows such as customer data analysis, customer communication, client support, and more. The current software market offers merchants dozens of platforms, so when choosing a tool, you should clearly envisage its potential and realize whether it matches your CRM requirements list. There are some fundamental functions inherent in any CRM. The essential purpose of this system is to skim through multiple sources and communication media to collect a customer’s profile, including their telephone number, e-mail, website, address, social network accounts, and any other available personal data. The best CRMs don’t limit their search to such essentials but pull in some information on the client’s preferences and their recent business activity and purchasing behavior. The next step CRM makes is processing and structuring the obtained data to have a comprehensive record of individuals and companies you will use in your interaction with them. More advanced CRMs are open to integration with other business apps and tools, supplementing customer personal information with surveys on accounting, billing, and document signing, ultimately giving you a full-size 3-D portrait of your client. CRMs of the new generation are still more sophisticated, with their built-in intelligence able to automate many administrative functions like data entry or lead and service case routing. Taking organizational jobs on its shoulders, CRM frees your staff to attend to more urgent or creative tasks so far above the machines’ heads. Thus, introducing CRM into your business practices spells a targeted approach and personal touch in dealing with clients, a deeper understanding of their unique requirements, boosted customer satisfaction and consequently their retention, improved reputation of your company, adjusting and upgrading your products or services by the customers’ expectations. As a result, you identify which customers bring more profit, intensify your marketing efforts directed at this specific group, and have an additional opportunity for cross-selling related products. All of this boils down to increasing your revenues by a quarter . The value that this tool can bring to your business depends on the CRM service module set, so before opting for a platform by a certain supplier, make sure it contains modules from the following list. Discover more insights on CRM development. What are the most essential modules in CRM? What is a CRM module? It is an element of the suite responsible for some aspect of your workflow pertinent to customer interaction. What modules does a good CRM possess? Marketing module The marketing module in CRM can streamline all marketing-related activities of your enterprise and usher in marketing automation on a large scale. Leads CRM excels at keeping the client data organized to promptly forward leads to requisite reps. For you to know where to direct them, CRM captures leads from different marketing campaigns and stores their data. Once you have it collected in one place, you can use it in your marketing efforts. Knowing the present status of your leads and tracking their activity will help you fathom buyers’ motifs as well as identify the most valuable customers. Some CRMs (especially customized ones) can augment this functionality with various options like lead scoring and automatic lead generation that are instrumental in managing activities, tasks, and lists. Analytics Each module typically integrates an analytics tool of its own, but for many companies, it is essential to have a centralized engine responsible for data analysis since it will ensure a smooth exchange of information between departments, individuals, and procedures. Unless there is such a function, you are likely to face duplication of effort and inaccurate results, which is sure to incur the waste of time that your employees could have spent on errands of the moment. Once you improve data analysis, you can segment customers, gauge escalation, take stock of profitability, and do many other things that will help to knowledgeably plan your sales campaigns, taking into account the data provided by the previous ones. Having a bespoke CRM enables you to make use of advanced analytics tools. E-mail marketing It is not only about sending personalized e-mails to certain individuals or even segments of clients. This function allows you to improve your e-mail campaigns with a view to the previous campaigns’ experience. Having the results of the earlier efforts at your disposal, accompanied by symptomatic figures (for instance, click-through and conversion rates), you can gauge how rewarding your work was and shape the new campaign scenario correspondingly. In addition to its strategic value, this tool displays details of your landing pages and website widgets (including their types and status), providing an opportunity to generate separate reports for each of them to fathom their conversion rate. In case it is integrated with third-party e-mail services, this functionality will turn into an efficient means of rapport with the audience. Social media Today, most people lead their second virtual life on Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter. They exchange information on products and services, share their experience of buying something from various outlets, disseminate news on key events, and much more. Neglecting this communication venue with the marketing opportunities it has in store will hamstring your effort and put you at a disadvantage with more agile and far-sighted rivals. So social media integration option is what you should definitely look for when selecting a CRM for your company. Mobile system Another hit with the people of the 21 st century is the smartphone. Their portability and round-the-clock availability allow companies to stay constantly in touch with customers, getting their notifications and responding to their inquiries. Mobile CRMs, in the guise of apps, enable your staff to manage projects and customer relationships promptly, which is what your clients expect in the fast-tempo world of today. Sales module This module is responsible for facilitating your sales. Experiencing a lack of technical expertise and skills? Connect with a professional team to address your project challenges. Contact us Sales data The function helps arrange raw sales data into manageable chunks to identify pain points and develop data-driven solutions. Typically, the tool supplements the stratified data with visualizations that can facilitate lead identification, sales forecasting, KPI quantifying, and other operations aimed at streamlining the sales process. Reports Employees complete many reports related to various stages and aspects of the sales process. Pipeline reports inform on sales opportunities (and if they were missed, the lost sales report will mention it), activity reports track the reps’ activity, and open issues reports contain customer complaints. One can easily get snowed under such a plethora of administrative and field sales reports. CRM steps in here, gathering reports in one place accessed with a universal dashboard and categorizing them according to different criteria. Frequently used reports are prioritized so users can create customized reports on short notice. Real-time updates of the reports and multiple-portal access to them make their usage extremely user-friendly. Call center If you have a call center, it is sensible to control it through CRM, integrating all your third-party systems into a single platform. This way, you won’t lose any information in the transfer between systems. Moreover, you can make and record calls, track their history, and get smart notifications via your CRM. Personnel service A good CRM isn’t only about pleasing customers and boosting sales. Streamlining and consolidating your employees’ efforts will result in greater work satisfaction, which will positively affect their commitment and efficiency. Documentation Paperwork (even if documents are in e-format) is the most tedious part of the sales process. Searching for a necessary form or converting documents from one format to another becomes gruesome. CRM will eliminate such problems by keeping all documents and images in one repository, enabling all file types that your employees can access anytime. Workflow Automating data collection and analysis, marketing campaigns, and other tasks will speed up all procedures within the organization and provide reporting and analytics to boot, so utilizing CRM for workflow optimization is a win-win approach. Sales performance This CRM function will help managers track business performance easily. One such tool will enable managers to monitor team performance, identify problem zones, and address issues whenever they crop up. Keeping your staff on the same page is essential for the overall efficiency of their performance. Integrating the chat functionality into your CRM will provide your personnel (as well as your partners and clients) with an online communication channel without leaving your user interface. Role-based views This tool enhances data security by restricting access to specific files for employees whose responsibilities are unrelated to the information. These are standard modules available in most canned solutions, but if you want some unique features and functions, a custom CRM is what the doctor ordered. What other CRM modules can you get with a custom solution? There is a whole gamut of extra modules custom developers can augment your CRM with. Other useful CRM modules Pinch and spread for zoom Apps marketplace. With m-commerce rapidly gathering momentum, astute managers keep abreast of the latest trends and provide their CRM with an app integration facility. Once such an option exists, you can leverage connectors to ensure free data transfer between apps and CRM, collecting all your leads in one platform. Testing environment. This functionality enables employees and customers to test novel capabilities and get feedback on their performance. Inside sales console. A bespoke CRM can furnish a more advanced and efficient UI, eventually increasing your team’s sales performance. Sales forecasting. Predicting customers’ reactions and your company’s progress will help you modify your current sales strategy to achieve the desired effect. Pricing and billing. The province of this module is managing prices for products or services and invoice automation. Thanks to it, employees can establish and update pricing policies, generate invoices concerning current terms and prices, and track payments. Custom field builder. This tool will help add fields to your employee, contact, or company profile. The list of these fields includes texts, passwords, calendars, numbers, checkboxes, dropdowns, etc. Quotes and proposal management. Having immediate access to the quotes and proposals you dispatched to prospects and clients will allow you to turn them into sales orders once the purchase occurs. Third-party integrations. If your company uses other software (say, BI or HR), it is natural that you would like it to see eye to eye with your CRM. Custom development will enable such integrations, aligning all your platforms for more effective employment. The latter module comes in handy if you decide to supplement your CRM with the functionalities that ERP grants. You obtain multiple perks by carefully choosing and implementing the necessary modules for your CRM software. Upsides of properly selected CRM modules made plain As an experienced IT vendor specializing in developing bespoke CRM tools , DICEUS sees five key advantages of filling such solutions with the necessary scope of modules. Data centralization Once CRM data entry is completed, the information becomes available to sales, marketing, and customer service teams across the organization. As a result, companies obtain a unified client and marketing data bank that serves as a single source of truth for all employees, eliminating data silos, reducing its duplication, and increasing data accuracy for users. Thanks to data stored in the system, sales and marketing teams can make knowledgeable decisions and maintain robust communication with the clientele and among themselves. Workflow automation A fair share of shop floor tasks and processes are repetitive routines that employees perform day in day out. By automating response sending and follow-ups or initiating certain activities based on customer engagement, you delegate such assignments to machines, free the workforce for more meaningful and creative jobs, and minimize mistakes associated with human factors. In this way, you enhance pipeline management, raise workforce efficiency, and increase productivity immensely. Upgraded sales management With a top-notch combination of CRM modules, sales managers enjoy a comprehensive view of existing customers and can personally develop sales projections for each of them. It allows employees to revolutionize sales processes dramatically throughout the entire sales funnel, organize leads, attract potential customers, and identify trends in this area, thus accelerating sales cycles and boosting revenues. Improved customer relationships The extensive CRM modules list helps sales and marketing specialists create a 360-degree view of the company’s clientele with all their characteristics and peculiar features (demographics, customer behavior, income level, purchase history, tastes, interests, and pain points). Having such data at their fingertips, employees and managers can excel at contact management and maintaining rapport with consumers and build a long-term CRM strategy to deliver maximum client satisfaction and foster customer loyalty among their target audience. Streamlined customer support Today, first-rate customer experience is impossible without efficient customer service. When bolstered with the power of artificial intelligence , a robust chatbot within the respective CRM module is a superb mechanism for handling client queries, resolving customer issues, and providing insights concerning frequent complaints. Armed with such tools, organizations can elevate their customer support to a new level and hone their competitive edge. A CRM system’s capabilities soar if it is synchronized with an ERP solution, which most contemporary enterprises leverage. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us What is the difference between CRM and ERP software? Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) is another tool that aims to enhance a business’s profitability. Like CRM, ERP enables prompt sharing of processed and standardized data across departments. It works in the following way. Like CRM, an ERP system is a collection of tools and functionalities, but their focus differs. ERP systems are geared toward tackling a company’s routine business operations, such as financial management, procurement, project management, warehouse administration, manufacturing, inventory management, order management, and more. Typically, both systems share a common database to synchronize the enterprise’s back-office and client-facing activities. Employees enter information into the system, resulting in a real-time snapshot that any staff member can access. Consequently, if problems arise, personnel across all departments (especially those whose fields of activity are immediately related) know about them. They can take steps to address them at their level and within their competence. Such a strategy shifts the focus of attention from operations to the data, allowing us to prepare to nip the problem in the bud before it spreads across the board and afflicts whole departments. Aiming to boost the enterprise’s efficiency and utilizing centralized data repositories, ERP and CRM adopt different approaches to reaching the common overarching goal. CRM looks outside the organization, being called to increase sales volumes and thus revenues by streamlining the company’s relationships with clients and keeping them satisfied (and consequently, loyal to your brand). ERP bends its gaze inwards and focuses on enhancing cooperation between departments, making their workflow more efficient. Greater efficiency is attained by reducing overhead expenditure, namely, the one that is spent (in this case, wasted) on inadequate business process handling. Since both platforms attempt to solve the common ultimate problem of approaching the task from different vantage points, it makes sense to make use of both, integrating CRM into ERP. What is the CRM module in ERP? CRM and ERP can serve as standalone platforms, each acting towards the goals it aims to achieve. Yet, the necessity to constantly switch from one to the other and possible issues with data loss or misplacement is a good enough reason to think about integration. Typically, a CRM module incorporated into the ERP already operating in the organization can help achieve the best of both worlds. Such incorporation enhances the standard ERP functions, which will positively affect the supply chain, finance, project management, human resource administration, etc. Once you add a CRM module to ERP, employees obtain one-screen visibility and real-time control over all leads and clients without having to spread themselves too thin over some menus and dashboards. The module receives data from other modules responsible for customer relations (finance, sales, service), enabling the linking of potential deals to multiple activities (phone calls, quotations, sent orders) and assigning each activity to the rep who will implement it. Tracking is also drastically improved so that you can follow up with orders, customer complaints, administering campaigns, and other elements of the sales cycle. While most CEOs agree on the undeniable merits of introducing ERP and CRM (either separately or in combination), they differ as to the choice between building and buying solutions. Check out our ERP software development guide. Custom or off-the-shelf: A choice that matters Conventionally, the choice you will have to make is described as a control vs. cost alternative since the main advantage of ready-made solutions is their lower price, and the chief asset that bespoke software brings is the ability to commission whatever you need in CRM. However, such a summary view isn’t totally accurate because the comparatively small money you fork out for an off-the-shelf platform subscription is to be paid monthly, and if this solution is a cloud-based one, it will cost you a pretty penny once you calculate the string of annual payments you make. Another ostensible advantage of a canned CRM is a free testing period. Yet, developers typically supply an MVP to test the final bespoke product and get your feedback. Another boon both systems enjoy is 24/7 support for custom CRMs, which spells the ability to scale or fine-tune your tool whenever you have a mind. However, off-the-shelf software has one undeniable asset – the speed of implementation. When your company is a startup needing software to begin operating as soon as possible, a boxed solution is your only choice. Yet, if you stand firmly on your feet and dream of conquering the sales world, a ready-made CRM loses its appeal. All expansion plans may be hampered by the software with a steep learning curve and no competitive edge. Moreover, boxed solutions may contain many functionalities that you rarely use or may not need. Plus, off-the-shelf products have paid updates and new versions. What is most galling is the inability to customize such a CRM and add features you could do with it. With all these considerations accumulating, bespoke solutions seem extremely beckoning. Here, you can see your idea implemented to the minute detail to give you unique features and capabilities that will suit your organization. The ability to scale and customize it provides flexibility and broad adaptability to the shifting conditions of the market. Finding an adequate developer is crucial once you settle for a custom CRM. DICEUS provides custom CRM system development, ready-made CRM implementation, system migration, legacy system modernization, and consulting services. Conclusion CRM is an indispensable sales tool. It can streamline your workflow and interact effectively with customers, keeping them satisfied and fostering brand loyalty. Whether you opt for an off-the-shelf or custom solution , ensure your CRM system has all the modules necessary for your company’s adequate performance . FAQ What are CRM modules? These are functionalities of the customer relationship management system that brings them together under one virtual roof. Users can access various modules from a unified dashboard and handle numerous client-facing workflows related to sales, marketing, and customer support. Why are CRM modules important? By filling their CRM system with necessary modules, organizations can cover all pipeline operations that focus on interaction with the clientele. A carefully selected and implemented module list ensures data centralization, eliminates data silos, enhances workflow automation, augments sales management, streamlines customer support, and improves client satisfaction in the long run. What are the most common CRM modules? A garden-variety CRM contains such basic modules as marketing, sales, and personnel service. If you create a bespoke solution, you can add to this must-have roster any other functionalities that your enterprise requires (for instance, sales forecasting, pricing and billing, quotes and proposal management, custom field builder, apps marketplace, you name it). Are CRM modules customizable? It depends on the nature of the system you onboard. In canned solutions, your customization efforts are limited by the vendor, which imposes boundaries on module flexibility. If you go for a tailor-made CRM, the sky is the limit. You can fill the system with the modules you need and make them as customizable as you like. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Getting to grips with merchant-customer interaction: Challenges to overcome What should a good CRM do? What are the most essential modules in CRM? What other CRM modules can you get with a custom solution? Upsides of properly selected CRM modules made plain What is the difference between CRM and ERP software? What is the CRM module in ERP? Custom or off-the-shelf: A choice that matters Conclusion FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles 18 min. read · 21 Aug 2025 23 Sep 2026 CRM development: Effective enterprise-grade solutions Insurance 14 min. read · 08 Apr 2024 16 Jan 2025 Customer journey mapping for insurance: Unlock the secrets of stunning customer experience 17 min. read · 11 Jun 2024 21 Nov 2024 How to develop an effective data migration strategy Insurance 9 min. read · 29 Jul 2026 03 Aug 2026 Guidelines for effective insurance claims handling 2026 Retail 18 min. read · 01 Oct 2025 04 Sep 2026 List of the top SCM software to use in 2025-2026 Insurance 9 min. read · 07 Aug 2024 09 Apr 2025 List of top insurance application development companies All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman