Big data development services Get consulting on big data projects What we offer The scope of business data is rapidly increasing. Companies hardly manage to take over business-critical information about suppliers, consumers, products. Thus, the prevailing majority of businesses are searching for Big Data outsourcing to find the technology which could convert their data into valuable insights and implement it. We offer Big Data development that allows organizations to take advantage of many opportunities, such as improved pricing, reduced operational costs, enhanced efficiency, increased sales and loyalty, and many more. Depending on your industry specifics, you can also leverage Big Data to make accurate forecasts based on reliable data, such as analyzing current conditions on the market and consumers’ behavior. Big data development services Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of big data outsourcing In every software project, we are focused on delivering high-quality outcomes. Outsource Big Data expertise to enhance security, motivate your customers to share data, make reliable forecasts, and boost customer satisfaction. Our experts can consult you on best practices and approaches to Big Data implementation. They will also provide you with a step-by-step project execution strategy and a list of values you can get after the project release. Improve security With the high growth of online services, especially online payments, the fraud rate has also increased significantly. Big Data solutions can enhance security using natural language processing, voice recognition, machine learning. Companies that guarantee customer sensitive data protection are more trusted. We are a Big Data outsourcing company that can help you increase your business authority by implementing the right Big Data software. Encourage data sharing Data sharing is essential for connecting your organization with the information you need to generate valuable insights, conduct analysis, and make business forecasts. With Big Data application development, you can encourage your customers to share data ensuring that the shared information is safe and secure. Having this data at fingertips, organizations can more accurately build their strategies and product offering. Forecast consumers’ preferences Today, it’s hard to stay competitive and retain customers; that’s why businesses are searching for new ways to improve clients’ loyalty. Data analytics allows for better personalization by targeting the right audience — as a rule, those who care about or are likely to make a purchase. We have experience building Big Data software for marketing and customer relationship management purposes. Improve customer service Big Data can increase your clients’ satisfaction with your customer support — companies are actively enriching their websites with chatbots, polls, surveys. That helps give a fast response to customer requests and generate valuable data to identify your strengths and weaknesses. Based on this data, you will be able to bridge the gaps and improve customer relationship management within your organization. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our big data development Reliable Big Data offshore software developers will consult you, design, develop, and test custom software with your business goals in mind. Big data consulting We provide consulting on Big Data technologies. This service scope includes getting a closer look at your current architecture and data warehousing solutions, consulting on ETL best practices, building data pipeline strategy, assistance in selecting the most suitable data analytics tools for your business and telecommunication network, choosing the right solution for data infrastructure and management. Big data solutions Analysis, engineering, and science — we have a holistic approach to Big Data product development and implementation. Our expertise in data communication, software engineering, math, statistics, and algorithms is one of the reasons you can rely on us in getting your software on time, spec, and budget. Big data analytics We specialize in advanced analytics solutions for businesses serving various industries. Our focus is data warehouses, 360-degree customer view systems, smart data visualization, and BI reporting. These solutions allow companies to take advantage of structured and unstructured data types and convert those to valuable business information. Big data support Harness outsourced Big Data development services to support the solutions created by our developers or other vendors. This support includes regular checks and analysis to ensure that your solution functions correctly and brings your company the expected business values. As deliverables of the service, you get reports with pre-defined metrics and recommendations on improvements. What impacts your project duration The time your big data project will last depends mostly on the factors mentioned below. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technology and platforms Industry specifics What affects your project costs Traditionally, we consider the list of things below to estimate the big data project cost. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team Chosen platform What we need from your side The list of things we need from the client’s side varies from project to project. Firstly, we will need your high-level requirements to understand your challenges, needs, and goals. Secondly, we will be glad if you provide all the important project documentation, your desired deadlines and expectations. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Maritime Scoutbase web project development and optimization Real Estate Home rental platform redevelopment Financial HCM data management system Government COVID-19 monitoring tool for Saudi Arabia Frequently asked questions What are big data services? We are a Big Data development company that provides a full range of Big Data services, including consulting, custom development, testing, and support. The scope of this service depends on the clients’ requirements and is discussed beforehand. What does a data science consultant do? Data science consultants can help you in identifying the most meaningful data flow and sources and automating the data aggregation processes. They are skilled in structuring data, analyzing various trends and patterns in data flow, developing data models, etc. What is big data technology? Big Data technology is used to create software capable of extracting and analyzing big data sets. Unlike traditional software, the software fueled by Big Data technology can process and analyze big volumes of information rather faster. Similar expertise BI and Reporting Data science Data warehouse and ETL Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman