Retail software development services DICEUS provide custom software development services for the retail industry, offering a wide range of solutions to meet your business-specific needs. Get started Modern digitally driven retail businesses rely on multiple high-tech products in their shop floor routines. Retail software development services provided by DICEUS aim to create best-in-class customized professional solutions powered by innovative technologies that facilitate and streamline retail workflows, enhance customer service, and optimize marketing initiatives. 14 years of presence in the IT outsourcing market Over 150 projects delivered successfully Offices located in 8 countries in Europe, America, and Asia 250 full-time software professionals Our retail software development services and solutions DICEUS offers an entire scope of retail solutions that will allow companies in the sector to manage all workflows, increase their operational efficiency, and guarantee maximum client satisfaction. Retail apps Seize the opportunity to attract more customers and provide more personalized service with custom retail apps. We have experience creating solutions with content-based filtering features and expertise in building relevant search algorithms for e-commerce. Learn more Ecommerce app Use our retail software development services to build e-commerce solutions with intuitive UI and UX that meet your target customer needs and ever-changing market demands. Our experts will help you make the right choice of software that fits your business needs and goals. Learn more IT solutions for retail Implement IT solutions for the retail sector with DICEUS — we offer supply chain management systems, warehouse solutions, e-commerce platforms, point of sale solutions (POS), customer relationship management (CRM), and other custom-designed applications. Learn more AI solutions for retail We offer our expertise in artificial intelligence to help retailers get a better overview of their supply chains and inventory, reduce the number of workforces needed to track delivery, predict customer demands accurately, categorize products and services better, and provide personalized customer support. Learn more POS software Discover what is possible for your retail store, restaurant, or brand with our retail software development services. We have expertise in building a variety of POS features: in-store or on the go payment processing, contactless payments, multiple payment methods, customer-facing display, and many more. Learn more CRM systems We build and integrate customer relationships management systems (CRMs) with advanced analytics to analyze historical and real-time customer data and predict future demands, trends, and preferences. 360-degree view systems can improve customer retention rate and your business revenue significantly. Learn more Payment gateway integration Modern fintech is full of great solutions for payments and wallet integration. We offer our expertise in payment gateway development and integration concerning your current and future business requirements in scaling up, fraud detection, compliance, and others. Learn more Inventory management Inventory control is the backbone of retail routine, helping companies keep track of their stocks and maintain an optimal inventory level. The inventory management systems we build let you monitor the agility of product movement and reorder items to replenish stocks, avoiding overstocking and forestalling stockouts. Order management Such products are a command center for managing the order lifecycle end-to-end. Their specialized features (label creation, dispatch management, status updates, and more) will allow you to successfully complete order processing, inventory checking, delivery, and shipment tracking of each item until it reaches your customer. Total global retail sales are growing rapidly — the reason for that boost is not only the growth of consumerism as a phenomenon but also the evolution of next-generation technologies that improve retailers. Such technologies as robotic process automation, artificial intelligence, blockchain, and others make it possible to rise to the challenges posed by digital disruption, evolving customer expectations, employee attrition, inefficient internal communication. Our retail software development company offers a wide range of custom development services to help you meet the challenges and grow. Let’s discuss your project requirements. Send requirements and our team will contact you soon. Send request Which organizations gain from developing custom retail software solutions Robust custom solutions geared for the retail industry are the staple of many retail companies’ IT infrastructure. Offline retail outlets Despite being brick-and-mortar facilities at their core, shopping malls, department stores, supermarkets, warehouse retailers, factory outlets, convenience stores, grocery shops, and even mom-and-pop stores rely on specialized software in their pipeline retail operations. Such organizations leverage the entire gamut of retail solutions – from CRM systems and accounting software to store management software and POS products. E-commerce companies For online shops of all kinds (B2B, B2C, C2C, and C2B) that are either vendor-specific websites or multi-vendor e-stores, retail software is mission-critical since it enables them to market, buy, sell, and ship their merchandise, manage their business processes, and provide customer-centric shopping experiences. To cover all these needs, retail managers of these enterprises employ e-commerce apps, marketing automation tools, CRM systems, and other solutions. Marketplaces These platforms offer a digital venue to connect vendors and consumers, where the former sell and deliver their products and the latter acquire them, while marketplace owners establish rules of interaction and process transactions. For platform runners, the integration of a payment system plays a pivotal role. Besides, they utilize various software products to optimize operational efficiency and provide a smooth customer experience for sellers and buyers alike. Startups As a rule, budding entrepreneurs who dream of disrupting the existing markets with their unique products tend to leverage state-of-the-art retail technology stack to promote their goods. They utilize dedicated apps, AI tools, and other cutting-edge software to devise and implement offbeat marketing strategies, monitor sales trends, perform demand forecasting, and gain valuable insights into their target audience’s needs, preferences, and pain points to guarantee utmost customer satisfaction. Why choose DICEUS for custom software development in retail Today, the IT outsourcing market is full of vendors offering their software development services to business owners worldwide. What makes us sure DICEUS is an optimal option for a qualified and reliable partner in implementing retail software projects? Retail expertise Our team is always willing to help retailers tackle their industry challenges using the latest technologies expertise and our end-to-end custom development services. We have experience developing, testing, integrating AI-based solutions for retail, predictive analytics, point of sale software, recommender systems, and many more. Book a free call to get professional IT consulting for your retail business. Guaranteed outcomes Unlike many other software outsourcing vendors, we guarantee the expected project outcomes. We’ve made it possible by establishing a quality-driven software development life cycle encompassing all critical stages and adherence to quality standards. In the initial stages, we provide you with a project roadmap and work breakdown structure to demonstrate which smaller parts your project is made up of. Quality focus High quality of the product and alignment with requirements are ensured by a well-defined quality assurance process, testing, and effective internal communication between testers and developers. Our test engineers are highly-skilled in all types of manual and automated testing of retail software solutions. Full-range services Here at DICEUS, we deliver software on time, spec, and budget because we build a mature process of software development. Also, that is possible because of our wide custom software development service suite that counts more than 20 services that match any IT service need, including data migration, system integration, UI/UX design, legacy system modernization, and many more. Innovative tech stack While creating retail software solutions, we employ the most disruptive technologies in the IT realm, including artificial intelligence, machine learning, cloud computing, data warehousing, and more. To let this know-how operate efficiently, our software engineers and designers regularly hone their skills and upgrade their competencies through continuous learning. Compliant solutions Consumers involved in retail operations want to be sure their personal and financial data is absolutely safe and leak-proof. The retail products we build follow all regulatory norms in the industry (GDPR, CCPA, etc.), which guarantees the inviolability of customer data and complete protection against unauthorized access or penetration attempts. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our retail software development process Our well-defined software development processes allow us to guarantee high-quality project outcomes. Every retail software project requires following a sequence of stages like business analysis and requirements capturing, design stage, execution, testing, deployment. If a client needs further technical support or maintenance, we are always ready to provide that with multiple options at your disposal. Analysis Depending on your retail business specifics, we select the right approach to business analysis to gather all project requirements. Next, we use these functional and non-functional requirements as a basis for writing software specification that is agreed upon with a client. Ultimately, if everything, including design, is approved from the client-side, we can proceed to development. Development Before this phase, we select and approve with you the team composition, concerning the required skills, seniority level of developers, technology stack, project manager’s competencies, etc. Most of our PMs have PMI certificates; they are responsible for clearly communicating project requirements and goals to the team. For all clients, we offer a customer portal to control the project progress. Testing At the project start, our QA specialists develop the testing strategy and plan that are followed throughout the development process. We define and document the needed manual testing types or automated tests to cover all test cases associated with your retail software product. Deployment We check your IT environment before the deployment date to identify all existing gaps and technical issues that impede successful deployment. After the analysis, we provide you with the list of such issues and recommendations on fixing them most efficiently. Support We provide end-to-end technical support with multiple options and maintenance services in case you would like to add new features to your retail software product or integrate it with third-party applications. Reach us out to get consulting on software support options. Get a professional consultation on your retail software development project! Send request Explore our retail software development case studies Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case Our tech stack Frequently asked questions What is retail and ecommerce software solutions? These are software products, either custom-designed or out-of-the-box, that are used by a retail business for enterprise resource planning, supply chain management, customer relationship management, payments, and many more. Our retail software development company offers the fullest range of custom development and integration services for retailers. What services does a retail software company offer? Retail software development companies usually offer design, development, testing, integration, and legacy system modernization services. Besides, these companies should have strong expertise in artificial intelligence, machine learning, business intelligence, blockchain, robotic process automation, predictive analytics, etc. How much time will it take you to develop my retail software? The time of an IT project for the retail sector depends on the complexity of the project, i.e., if you need a simple mobile app for a small e-commerce startup, it will take a few months. In case it is an enterprise-level ERP, it could take up from multiple months to a year. Contact us to get an accurate estimation of your project. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman