Robotics process automation services Talk to our RPA specialists What we offer We offer RPA services to help businesses embrace innovation and new opportunities. As you might know, intelligent automation is one of the most trending technologies to simplify and automate lots of jobs performed in banking and financial services, insurance, healthcare, retail, and many more. We have strong experience providing professional RPA consulting and development services. Our solutions are built focusing on your business goals and added values like better customer experience and support, improved compliance and risk management, and increased automation. Feel free to contact our RPA company experts to consult on best practices and strategies to adopt digital process automation. Robotics process automation services Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of RPA software development RPA solutions allow avoiding errors and typos, saving time for higher-level tasks and activities, following regulatory compliance better, being consistent and efficient in your routine jobs. Robotic process automation helps avoid errors and enhance data accuracy, increase operational efficiency, manage compliance challenges, and improve customer support. Improved accuracy One of the most significant benefits of robotic process automation is eliminating human errors and minimizing manual jobs. Bots, if programmed appropriately and being provided with correct data, ensure high quality, accuracy, reliability, and consistency of business data. Get your data organized and structured by implementing the right automation strategy. Increased efficiency We offer a wide range of solutions allowing businesses to improve their efficiency: intelligent data processing (IDP) solutions, including optical character recognition (OCR), reporting automation solutions, customer support solutions for automation interactions between company advisors and clients. Get consulted on any RPA technology for free by reaching out to our specialists. Managed compliance Our RPA software company will help you find the most suitable solution to many compliance-related issues like anti-money laundering regulations, fraud investigation, reporting and monitoring requirements. We develop effective strategies to minimize the scope of manual activities associated with data aggregation, processing, and structuring. Customer support In the face of continuously growing customer demands and ever-changing behavioral patterns, be prepared to serve your clients better. Robotic process automation services and solutions can help you reduce the time for processing customer requests and improve employee productivity. Moreover, RPA allows for avoiding mistakes and searching for various information faster. Get a free consultation on your project! Send request Our RPA development process We are result-oriented and focused on making your RPA adoption journey as effective as possible. Below is how our robotic process automation consulting and RPA development services work. Business analysis Starting with the project initiation phase and proceeding with requirement gathering, we ensure consistent RPA program planning. It means that our experts will develop fundamentals for RPA adoption and implementation within your organization, gather all functional and non-functional requirements, conduct respective analyses including integration impact analysis, and identify all opportunities and values your company will get along with RPA as a service. Solution development Our RPA development services include API integration, API design and architecture, integration with chatbots, machine learning and artificial intelligence solutions, maintenance, and consulting. We also do a software audit and identify technical debt to be resolved before implementing RPA in IT services. We have experience handling projects with attended RPA solutions, unattended RPA software, and hybrid ones. Testing All software solutions developed by Diceus undergo a comprehensive series of tests, including stress testing and penetration testing. Our standard-driven approach to development allows us to deliver high-quality applications and systems. Besides, user acceptance testing is a must so you will be able to test your software product and give us your feedback to fix any bugs, develop any additional functionality, or make any tiny changes you need. Deployment Before deployment, we check your environment for any issues and provide recommendations on how to resolve them better. Our specialists will schedule the deployment date and can help you manage these processes according to best practices. We can also develop and provide you with user training documentation if needed. That is discussed in the initial phases of the project so be sure you consider this during the project initiation. What impacts your project duration A lot of factors affect the duration of RPA projects. Below you can discover the most critical ones. Project requirements Expected deadlines Team composition Chosen technologies and platforms What affects your project costs The services of an RPA development company costs are usually calculated, taking into account the following things. Project scope and complexity Chosen technology Project completion urgency Engagement model: Fixed Price, Time & Material, Dedicated Team What we need from your side Our clients are sure that we will deliver their project on time. However, we always appreciate your help and usually need to get the following things from your side. If you have any questions about the list, our experts will be glad to assist you. Just drop us a line or call to get answers to your request. Project goals, vision, and roadmap if exist High-level project requirements Project-specific documentation if available, for example, software architecture and mockups Client’s availability (a couple of hours per week for requirements gathering sessions) Project deadlines Our tech stack Explore our case studies Financial services Software Audit for Wilson & Franco Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Frequently asked questions What is robotic process automation software? Robotic process automation software is implemented to simplify and automate a lot of common, mainly manual, activities like data aggregation, structuring, organizing, and many more. RPA allows for better accuracy, higher efficiency, improved customer experience. What is the best RPA software solutions? Among the best RPA technology providers are UiPath, Automation Anywhere, Appian, and BluePrism. Our experts will happily consult you on any of these platforms and will develop the most effective strategy for RPA adoption within your organization. What are the RPA tools to use for automation? Among the most popular RPA tools are various APIs, chatbots, optical character recognition solutions, translation software, and many more. To select the right RPA toolset for your company, please reach out to our experts and get free consulting on RPA as service. Similar expertise BI and Reporting Cloud solutions Data warehouse and ETL Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman