Vendor portal development As a seasoned IT vendor focusing on delivering business solutions, DICEUS specializes in customer and vendor portal development for clients worldwide. Our experience in the field and the wide selection of tools we wield allow us to build high-end vendor portal software of various types to oblige the most demanding customer. Speak with our expert Types of custom vendor portals we create The internal workflow of modern digitally-driven organizations is impossible without a CRM, ERP, a customer portal solution, etc., and vendor portals of different types can become another valuable asset for companies that want to step up their collaboration with business partners. Procurement portals These solutions are honed to provide efficient and cost-effective management of enterprises’ procurement pipelines. With such software in place, it will serve as a hub where buyers and suppliers can interact, conduct transactions, and solve any shop floor issues without resorting to manual procedures. Supplier collaboration portals This type of supplier portal solutions is a web platform where suppliers communicate and collaborate with customers (and with each other). Here, stakeholders share information, find each other to cinch a deal, request quotes, work together on various projects, and have effective tools for tracking the status of the project they are engaged in. Inventory and order management Such portals are indispensable for firms involved in sales since they automate and streamline the entire sales process – from order placement to delivery (and return if necessary) via all channels. A special module of the system takes care of inventory management which helps enterprises to keep track of the stock of goods and materials in their warehouses. Payment and invoicing The larger the company is, the more burdensome client billing and invoicing becomes. You can make it much easier by onboarding this portal type. It will automate the generation and processing of invoices by sending out custom invoices, requesting and tracking payments, and managing invoice delivery, thus minimizing errors and boosting customer satisfaction. Analytics and reporting By setting up a cloud-powered analytics and reporting system, you will obtain a single interface that will grant your employees easy access to historical and current data related to any operations within your organization’s pipeline and customer behavior. In this way, you will be able to map out data-driven marketing and business strategies for your company. Communication portals These solutions give an edge to vendor customer service, enabling individuals and businesses to interact with each other, learn the latest news in the niche, and share data via a variety of media (email, phone calls, texting, voice-over IP, etc.). Also, such portals serve as a gateway to a range of websites, links, and resources with relevant information. Need to implement a vendor portal? We build custom solutions or integrate ready-made ones. Send request Benefits of vendor portals for businesses An efficient, easy-to-operate, and technology-enhanced vendor portal ushers in numerous boons to organizations that leverage it. Vendor onboarding This functionality is honed to efficiently collect and process data and documentation related to qualifying, prioritizing, approving, and contracting vendors. Project/order management The module allows enterprises to organize all orders or projects into clear, doable tasks and facilitate their implementation. Invoice management With this feature, quick and error-free processing of invoices becomes a breeze when you get an invoice from a vendor, verify its legitimacy, pay the supplier, and register the payment. Performance tracking It enables the monitoring and assessment of shop floor operations and the efficiency of employees via leveraging special measurement metrics and tracking vital KPIs. Analytics and reporting The features enable in-depth analysis of all business and customer data and the generation of comprehensive reports which can be further utilized as actionable insights. Vendor self-service Vendors can view supplier information, submit documents, track orders, and communicate without any help or interference from support teams. What outcomes would you like to achieve with a vendor portal? Let’s explore with a discovery phase! Get started Want to discuss your project? Contact us Our services DICEUS, as a high-profile portal development company, provides end-to-end services in the following use cases. Custom vendor portal development This is the core of our services in the domain. Our competent experts can build a vendor portal of any size and complexity in alignment with your business requirements and organization’s vision. Ready-made portal solution implementation If you have acquired a boxed or a white-label vendor portal, we can lend a helping hand in onboarding it. Plus, the vetted mavens of DICEUS will assist you with embracing the product’s capabilities. Integration services Since vendor portals bring the most value when combined with a company’s ERP and other components of the IT environment, we will provide seamless integration of all your high-tech assets. Modernization services In the contemporary fast-paced technological landscape, software gets obsolete swiftly, so, we will tackle its full-scale modernization and upgrading. Why choose DICEUS as a reliable vendor portal development provider In the high-tech-fueled world of the early third millennium, digital service consumers have a vast choice of vendors to entrust their IT projects. What gives DICEUS the edge over its competitors in the niche of vendor portal development? Over a dozen years of presence in the software development market . That allowed us to acquire tons of experience. More than 150 completed projects for organizations across various industries (retail, logistics, insurance, fintech, banking, healthcare, and more). 250 qualified and certified developers with a broad expertise range to implement any vendor portal project. A consistent SDLC that helped us to successfully accomplish all projects we put our hands and brains to. Versatile tech stack , which includes a broad range of programming languages, front-end and back-end software, and state-of-the-art technologies (such as AI, ML, blockchain, IoT, etc.) our experts leverage. The Agile methodology we steer by in software development and project management is a surefire recipe for the fast creation of high-end IT products. The client-centered approach —we adjust the communication schedule and interaction channels to oblige our customers’ preferences and tastes. Our tech stack How long does it take to develop a vendor portal? To give a precise estimation of the time the creation of a vendor portal will take, we must take into account the following factors. Project nature and requirements Expected deadlines IT team composition Platforms and tech stack required for the project Change requests How much does it cost to develop a vendor portal? The sum you will have to allocate for building a vendor portal is conditioned by five considerations. Selected technology Project scope and complexity The urgency of project implementation Engagement model you opt for (Dedicated Team, Time & Material) The list of features the portal will contain Our achievements Our case studies Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Government Resolute customer web portal and admin web portal FAQ How can a vendor portal improve collaboration with suppliers? By harnessing a vendor portal in your relationships with suppliers, you will ensure an across-the-board standardization of shop floor processes, detect and eliminate existing bottlenecks, provide a range of self-service options, enhance document processing and sharing, and enable direct data updates. Can a vendor portal be accessed from mobile devices? Since the majority of people use mobile gadgets for accessing web content, a vendor portal should provide its users with a satisfactory mobile experience. It is possible when the vendor portal’s creators take care of it at the stage of the solution’s development and UI/UX design. Can a vendor portal integrate with other systems? Enterprise software solutions can display their maximum efficiency when they operate in harmony with other elements of the company’s IT ecosystem. Vendor portals are no exception to this rule of thumb, and they are normally integrated with the organization’s ERP and some third-party tools. What features should a vendor portal include? The functionalities roster is conditioned by the industry and business requirements of a particular company. However, it necessarily must contain vendor onboarding, inventory and order management, invoicing, performance tracking, analytics and reporting, and a self-service dashboard. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman