Software development for startups Get a free consultation What we offer For two reasons, the fourth industrial revolution has become a godsend for business initiatives. The first is the almost global internet coverage that allows budding ventures to find and enter limitless markets in their consumer niche. The second is the arrival of professional solutions that can drastically streamline workflow management and enhance the customer experience. But while most entrepreneurs are up to the mark business-wise, the expertise in software development startup workforce is often substandard or non-existent. DICEUS is ready to step into the breach and provide a great scope of software development services for startups. SDLC Pinch and spread for zoom Product discovery and consulting Whether it is a mobile app, a web portal, an e-store, or a SaaS product, its discovery is the point of departure in any startup software development endeavor. We collect much data related to the project goal and its future consumers. We learn about their needs and pain points and see how their problems can be addressed with the help of specific functionalities of the solution-to-be. We also consult our clients on the technologies required to create these features. End-to-end development We practice a full-cycle approach to the creation of software. It means you don’t have to worry about anything when hiring the DICEUS team to build a solution. Our software development life cycle covers all the stages, from road mapping and planning through crew assembling, tech stack selection, and MVP creation to UI/UX design, implementation, testing, QA, deployment, and post-launch support and maintenance. Standalone module development Some tech startups have sufficient skills to handle the development of specific functionalities with which they plan to hit it big. But, as a rule, their expertise stops at that, leaving them unable to complete the product or attain the level of quality that will satisfy both the startup founders and their prospects. Our developers can step in at any stage to design and develop a separate module of any solution, thus bringing value to the project execution. Product updates The modern technological landscape is never at rest, with new know-how pushing its way in and novel approaches to solving age-long problems introduced. So, it may well happen that the solution only a little while ago turns out inadequate or obsolete in some aspect over weeks, not to mention years. Therefore, DICEUS will revise your product and update it to give another boost to its commercial potential. Startup founders face many challenges in reaching any industry’s primary business league. The idea they strive to monetize requires a viable marketing strategy and adequate technical expertise to be implemented. Outsourcing this side of the project and focusing on their core responsibilities is one of the most feasible options. DICEUS, as a startup software development company, has top-notch specialists who can tackle creating any software products – from apps to enterprise solutions of various types – that will impress you with smooth functioning and user-friendly design. Get a free consultation Startup development stages Pinch and spread for zoom Our achievements Benefits of cooperation with DICEUS for startups When looking for professional software, many well-established businesses go for off-the-shelf solutions, so they hire IT companies to improve those a little for their needs. Startups are a different pair of shoes since their original ideas require leveraging unique custom-made software products. Given this, DICEUS is a perfect choice for them. Why? The long history of cooperating with startups Having been present for 10+ years in the IT market, we have delivered numerous high-end solutions for behemoths in the business world and small companies that have just started their voyage to the bonanza shore. That is why we are well aware of the problems and pitfalls they encounter at the outset of their functioning and keep on the same wavelength with them. An extensive roster of IT experts The offbeat ideas that startups have as a foundation for their future product quite often require the contribution of various software experts with a broad range of qualifications and skills. DICEUS has over 250 developers with expertise in artificial intelligence, cloud transformation, digital transformation, cyber security, and many other areas. Cutting-edge technologies Startup products are almost always about breakthrough innovations. Their implementation relies on employing state-of-the-art technologies on the contemporary IT frontier. Our developers, architects, engineers, and designers keep abreast of all the latest developments in their competence and can employ their knowledge to enable your product to push the envelope. Best practices for software development Novel technologies employed by the most competent developers may have little effect if the software development process is poorly organized and inadequately managed. Therefore, our teams use Agile methodology, which allows specialists to keep vibrant communication between the stakeholders, increase the speed of delivery, and prioritize the quality of the final product. How we develop software Even the best software development companies for startups with the most qualified personnel can carry out their job badly if they randomize their efforts or rush things immoderately while executing projects. DICEUS never works on a hunch or tries to make short work of its tasks. Our philosophy of software creation is a step-by-step steady movement that rules out haste and minimizes post-launch correction. Requirements gathering We begin with carefully listening to the client and taking down what they can tell us about their project objectives and the target audience whose needs they will cater to. After that, we draw a list of requirements the future solution should meet and come up with the list of features it should contain, basing our judgment on our technical experience in the field. Design and prototyping Armed with the intelligence collected at the previous stage, we design the look and feel of the software product we are working on. Then, we create a proof of concept (PoC) to understand its feasibility from the technical standpoint and build a prototype of the product to visualize the UI it will have. Finally, the prototype is thoroughly tested and even submitted to real users for a trial. Product implementation When we know what works and what doesn’t, we finalize the product plan and architecture to pass it on to the team of engineers and developers who start coding away and thus bring to life the outlined scheme. They create front-end and back-end features and characteristics, having in view the ultimate purpose of achieving functional goals and obtaining a fully working solution. Testing and QA However meticulously our developers are doing their job, we never release a software product before we subject it to a comprehensive testing and quality assessment procedure. DICEUS test engineers run numerous automated, manual, functionality, security, user acceptance, and other types of tests to ensure the solution has no bugs and operates in accordance with expectations. Deployment and launch When the product is proven entirely functional, we deploy it in the client’s system, platform, or cloud-based environment. Then, we assist in posting it in the app store (if it is a mobile application) or configure the server/hosting (if it is a web solution). In the latter case, we also help our customers take the first steps in embracing software assets completely. Maintenance and support DICEUS, as a responsible vendor, doesn’t call it a day even after the software product is deployed and starts being used by the audience. We monitor the performance of the launched solution for at least a month to ensure its operation is smooth and issue-free. Besides, we keep in touch with our clients to offer them assistance and advice in case they need it. Get a free consultation What impacts your project duration Startups are always hurrying to market their product as quickly as possible. That is why they often wonder how long they will have to wait to see the finished product on the table. We can say something definite about the timeframe of execution only when we know the following: Project requirements Expected deadlines IT staff composition Platforms and tech stack Change requests What affects your project costs Startups are notorious for having very tight budgets, so the question of cost is often a life-or-death issue. Knowing this fact, we can calculate the price they will have to pay for the solution in the most accurate way. But to do that, we need to know the following: Chosen technology Project scope and complexity The urgency of project completion The preferred engagement models Release date What we need from your side However limited the tech competence of startup members may be, we still need their active participation in project implementation to speed up its completion and deliver a product that lives up to all their expectations. Notably, we need from them the following information. The project vision, goals, and roadmap (if any) High-level project requirements Available project documentation Project deadlines Customer weekly availability Our tech stack Get a free consultation Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Government OSCE PA website migration from Joomla 3 to version 4 Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Frequently asked questions How can custom software development help startups? As a rule, boxed solutions are more affordable than bespoke IT products and can be instantly employed, but they are not an option for startups. Why? Because the innovative concepts and offbeat approaches startups offer to the target audience require specifically tailored to that end unique software, which spells custom solutions only. Do you provide IT staffing services for startups? This is an essential part of our startup services package. Non-tech ventures usually opt for end-to-end software product development, but tech startups may have some IT experts in-house. If they lack specialists in any other sphere, the seasoned developers of DICEUS are ready to fill the gap. Do you offer product discovery and market-fit analysis? Of course, we do, since these stages of IT product development are called to answer the mission-critical question all startups face: “Does our business idea hold water?” Our experts conduct preliminary research to help the client understand if the solution-to-be has a value proposition for the target audience and fits the underserved market niche. Similar services IT staff augmentation SaaS development Front-end development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman