SaaS consulting services Talk to SaaS consultant What we offer Want to build a SaaS application but don’t know where to start? Then, SaaS consulting services provided by DICEUS are an excellent option to get started. Relying on a decade of experience, our team will help you get professional consulting on your software as a service project, including product discovery, design, and development. Below are the details of the software product development service we offer. Product discovery Market-fit analysis POC development Functional requirements Non-functional requirement Tech stack selection Candidate architecture UI/UX design Prototypes and wireframing Product development Product management QA and testing Deployment CI/CD pipeline Cloud managed services Support and maintenance Dedicated team Staff augmentation As you can see, we offer end-to-end SaaS development, starting from product discovery and ending with technical support. Moreover, you can try our IT staffing services if you need to hire more team members to scale up or require specific expertise. Our recruitment team has many profiles of expert developers in their pipeline. Thus, hiring the team members requires 2-4 weeks. Our SaaS consultants have experience in giving recommendations for common types of SaaS products for eCommerce, CRM, HR, ERP, communication, project management, payment solutions, and accounting. In addition, we are open to discovering your type of product, be it B2B or B2C solutions. A free consulting session with SaaS specialists and engineers (30 minutes or 1 hour) is available on demand. Talk to SaaS consultant SAAS Development life cycle Pinch and spread for zoom Benefits of SaaS consulting services By collaborating with a professional SaaS consulting group, you can study the latest trends in the SaaS market, get expert advice, and acquire such services as design, development, testing, etc. Here are the key benefits of our services. Product discovery deliverables Usually, deliverables depend on your project/product. They may include the following: user personas descriptions, User Journey Map, results of user interviews, UI/UX prototypes and wireframes, user stories list, non-functional requirements list, recommended technology stack and team composition, project roadmap and strategy, Requirements Traceability Matrix, Work Breakdown Structure, candidate architecture, risk evaluation, and mitigation plan, test plan and strategy. Expertise in your industry Building any SaaS product requires a deep understanding and knowledge of the sectors it will be used in. For example, if you plan to develop an ERP system for a bank, you will need software architects with experience building ERPs for banking. With 12 years in IT, our team adopted the best practices of software experts from the banking, insurance, healthcare, logistics, and other sectors. So, we will be happy to help you develop a solution that will be fully compliant with specific industry standards. Added values we offer Along with base values, our company offers many added values to customers. For example, we can assist in determining and formalizing your hiring needs, hire staff from various locations across the globe, onboard new team members, and create quarterly reports to show the status, issues identified, and plans for the next quarter. The list of added values depends on the service you need (outsourcing or outstaffing) and is available in the pre-sales stage for discovery. 10+ SaaS consultants on board Get advice from experienced architects, developers, test engineers, UX consultants, and analysts. Our SaaS consulting team will study your initial requirements and product ideas, discuss the nuances of building a SaaS product, and inform you about the next steps. For the first sessions, you will need to prepare your high-level requirements, project roadmap (if any), and any project-related documents you have. How it works Below are the most typical five steps needed to get effective SaaS consulting. The procedure starts with your idea—we should learn about the product’s concept, requirements, business plan, etc. Then, our analysts gather all the functional and non-functional requirements. Once everything is clear, we recommend the most-suited tech stack and team composition, which usually depends on the project’s scope and complexity. Step 1 – Share your idea with us First, we should learn what idea stands behind your SaaS solution, who your customers are, and what functionalities your software has or should have. Step 2 – Define all requirements Then, our SaaS consultants, together with a team of architects, analysts, designers, and developers, will define all the requirements for the project. Step 3 – Recommend technology stack Once all the requirements are formalized, we recommend you the most-suited technology stack, including programming languages, frameworks, databases, etc. Step 4 – Recommend a team composition According to the project’s scope and complexity, you get a detailed recommendation about the most effective team composition, meaning the number and level of specialists. Step 5 – Do PoC or start the development If you want to prove your concept first, we offer PoC development. However, if you have already done it, we can help you in development by providing a dedicated team or staff augmentation services. Talk to SaaS consultant What impacts your project duration Every customer who contacts us has their particular questions and needs. So, the time for consulting may vary from one hour to several months. Usually, the duration depends on the following factors: The number of questions you have The scope of services you’d like to get The complexity of your questions/project The list of deliverables you’d like to get after consulting The status of your project (start-up, existing product, re-engineering, etc.) What affects your project costs The cost of SaaS consulting services depends on the factors below and is usually estimated upon your request. The scope of services required The number of specialists involved from our side The number of extra deliverables you need Engagement model: Dedicated Team or Time and Material Extra requests What we need from your side Any project to be a success requires cooperation between a customer and a vendor. Thus, we always ask our clients to provide the following: Your SaaS product idea Any documents related to your product development A couple of hours for requirements gathering sessions The presence of key stakeholders from your side High-level requirements or a list of questions you have Our tech stack Talk to SaaS consultant Explore our case studies Healthcare Discovery Phase and MVP development of the Tribe fitness mobile app Healthcare Improvements of Google Cloud Platform environment for Clear Labs Healthcare Mobile and web app development for digital healthcare products Healthcare .NET application for dental industry Healthcare SaaS product for HealthyWage Frequently asked questions What do SaaS consulting services include? The scope of this service varies according to the client’s preferences and needs. It may include product discovery, market-fit analysis, software development, UI/UX design, testing and QA, deployment, and maintenance. Also, we offer staff augmentation for teams that want to quickly scale up or need to hire additional IT resources or find specific expertise. Do you provide SaaS product development services? DICEUS offers end-to-end SaaS development services, adhering to the Agile approach to project/product management. A full cycle of software development consists of SaaS consulting, project initiation, business analysis, design, user acceptance testing, testing, development, deployment, and project closure. Also, we transfer all project knowledge once the execution is over. What other types of consulting do you provide? DICEUS provides different types of IT consulting: Data warehousing consulting, cloud computing consulting, and software development consulting. IT consulting is available for various types of software solutions aimed to serve multiple industries: banking, insurance, insurtech, fintech, healthcare, retail, logistics, etc. Similar services IT consulting Software product development SaaS development Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman