Artificial intelligence consulting services At DICEUS, we mix industry expertise with innovation to power the business-transforming AI consulting services. We specialize in establishing, automating, and optimizing your business processes with advanced AI solutions, making your whole business platform smarter, more efficient, and highly competitive. Talk to expert Send request Our AI consulting services At DICEUS, we provide full-range AI consulting services designed to meet your business’s unique needs. Our dedicated AI consulting teams help you drive custom AI initiatives that are tuned for your business performance from inception to deployment and beyond. For this, we boast years of profiled experience, in-depth niche AI expertise, and tech stacks powered by the latest AI tools, technologies, and methodologies. AI capabilities Pinch and spread for zoom Business discovery We put a lot of extra attention into understanding your business needs and picking the best available AI capabilities that match both technical and business goals in the long run. The biggest part of our consulting services is about communicating priorities, analyzing insights, and setting objectives. During this phase, we: Conduct workshops : Bringing together teams, mentors, and stakeholders to gather requirements and define goals while on the same page. Assess current systems : Evaluating existing systems and data capabilities for potential optimization, migration, or refactoring. Identify AI use cases : Finding where AI can deliver the most value and mapping out the areas of interest. Feasibility analysis : Determining the technical and economic feasibility of proposed AI solutions. Data architecture Data is the backbone of any AI solution. We help design and implement data architectures, repositories, and smart data analysis solutions for the well-organized, structured, and maximized backbone for your AI applications. Specifically, we know how to handle solutions that allow you to scale AI and other software capacities easily, on the go. Here’s what we can guide you in building: Data warehousing solutions (DWH) : Consulting ways to store any amounts of structured and unstructured data via custom-built centralized repositories. ETL processes : Guiding the implementation of the Extract, Transform, Load approach, where disparate data flowing in from multiple sources is cleansed and brought to the highest data quality for smooth integration and loading. Data lakes : Leading entire end-to-end development project cycles for creating storage systems set to handle large volumes of raw data. Big data tech : Training your staff on how to use Hadoop, Spark, and other technologies to handle massive data sets. AI-powered solution development We offer the most relevant tools, methods, and useful tips for achieving AI solutions of any complexity and purpose, in a convenient timeline, without making you go too far and over-invest. We give you tons of our own, in-house expertise, assist in conducting tailored AI model training, and smooth out your AI journey at all angles. Some particular AI development takeaways we help with: Model development : Creating and helping to train custom AI models using machine learning (ML), neural networks, model training automation, and deep learning algorithms. Integration : Powering cost-efficient AI adoption, no matter the nature, scope, and capacity of your existing software infrastructures and workflows. Testing and validation : Showing ways to thoroughly test AI systems and separate models, making sure they match set goals, are accurate and reliable during peak performance. Deployment : Finalizing and implementing AI solutions in a required production environment, making sure everything is long-term scalable and robust to employ and modify. AI stand-alone module development For businesses looking to enhance specific functions through AI technologies, we offer the guided development of stand-alone modules for any given purpose. These modules can be further integrated into systems targeting specific business processes. Namely, we provide business process automation consulting on: Fraud detection : Training your staff to use AI for the identification and prevention of fraudulent activities in real time. Data mining : Showing how to leverage AI for data pattern recognition and advanced analytics. AI-driven data analytics : Sharing solutions for extracting deep insights and predictions from historical data to drive unique business strategy development and decision-making with innovative ideas. AI content analysis : Assisting in adopting available AI tools for advanced recognition and analysis of various types of content, like Optical Character Recognition (OCR) for text-to-speech and Natural Language Processing (NLP) for the analysis of live voice entries. Tell us more about your AI project! Send requirements More AI use cases for your business AI brings a huge tech advancement potential across the board. Apart from the core set of tasks, there are more practical use cases where our artificial intelligence consulting services can guide and assist you. Fraud detection Fraud detection is critical for industries such as finance, insurance, and retail. By implementing AI solutions under our guidance, you can: Analyze transactions : Powerful automated algorithms track and detect data entry anomalies and suspicious user activity. Predict fraudulent behavior : Potential fraud attempts can be prevented before they occur through in-depth data analysis. Automate alerts : Generate automated alerts for further investigation by human analysts and data scientists. Data mining (DWH) Data mining is a focused approach to extracting valuable insights from large datasets for efficient, data-driven decision-making. Our AI-powered data mining solutions can: Identify patterns : Discover hidden patterns and correlations in your data, leading to flaws to be mended and optimizations to implement. Optimize marketing strategies : Use customer data to tailor impactful, personalized marketing campaigns that bring tangible business outcomes. Empower product development : Hit the spot for your target audience by developing a solution based on their preferences and tendencies from the get-go. AI-driven data analytics When done properly, AI-powered data analytics can take even unstructured, raw data and squeeze real actionable insights out of it. We can help you do that with the help of: Predictive analytics : Forecast future trends, product demand scope, and target audience situation based on historical data. Descriptive analytics : Analyze past performance to understand key drivers, KPIs, and all sorts of valuable metrics to work by. Prescriptive analytics : Extract useful tips and actionable recommendations for powerful decision-making. AI content analysis (OCR, NLP, etc.) AI content analysis can automate and enhance content processing tasks, making your . Our solutions include: Optical Character Recognition (OCR) : Convert scanned documents into editable and searchable text for streamlined document processing. Natural Language Processing (NLP) : Analyze and understand human language to automate text and voice processing, setting up universally responsive chatbots and responsible AI that stimulate customer satisfaction. Sentiment analysis : Determine the sentiment (tone and mood) of text data for customer feedback analysis. How to get started Getting started with artificial intelligence consulting at DICEUS is easy and fast. Here’s a set of stages we usually go by: Initial consultation We start off with a preliminary consultation where our AI experts get to know you, your business, and/or staff, and discuss project vision and direct business needs. Discovery phas e We organize dedicated workshops and project assessments to identify the best-fitting artificial intelligence solutions at the moment, in your line of work, coming in most handy for your existing specialists. Proposal and planning Based on all the preliminaries and prep efforts, we structure out and provide a detailed project or tech initiative proposal, where we describe the scope, timeline, and approximate budget of the AI implementation project. Development and integration We work closely with your development team (or assist in hiring required developers) to build and integrate AI solutions. The most labor-intensive part of the job, this is where we guide the creation, adoption, and integration of all software moving parts. Deployment and support Lastly, we help finalize, polish out, and deploy your AI solution in the right operational environment. We also grant ongoing support to maintain data quality control, reinforce data security based on live performance, and promote continuous AI success. Why Choose DICEUS DICEUS is your all-purpose AI consulting company of choice when it comes to individually tuned expertise. Why do businesses choose us? Let’s just say we help do a lot of hard technical work — take a look. Expertise and experience Leveraging AI technologies is quick, painless, and to the point with seasoned professionals at DICEUS, who possess years of experience in AI and machine learning. With backgrounds in diverse fields, our AI-ready workforce brings a wealth of knowledge to every project, assisting you in crafting innovative and effective solutions. Our technical proficiency spans programming languages from C#, Python, and Java to R for robust AI and ML development. We utilize Machine Learning frameworks like TensorFlow, PyTorch, Scikit-learn, and Keras for developing sophisticated AI/ML models. We use Data processing tools like Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark, and SQL for efficient data handling and processing. Cloud platforms — the well-proven AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud, allow us to achieve scalable and secure cloud-based AI solutions. We also integrate AI automation platforms, like UiPath and Automation Anywhere, and more. Proven track record We have successfully delivered AI solutions across various industries. Our artificial intelligence portfolio packs solutions for finance and banking (AI-driven fraud detection, risk management systems, predictive analytics, etc.), healthcare (patient data analysis, predictive diagnostics, personalized treatment recommendations, etc.), retail (customer behavior analysis, inventory optimization, personalized marketing strategies, etc.), manufacturing (predictive maintenance, quality control automation, supply chain optimization, etc.), logistics (route optimization, demand forecasting, real-time shipment tracking, etc.), telecommunications (network optimization, customer service automation, churn prediction, etc.). Customer-centric approach We prioritize your business needs and tailor solutions to meet your specific requirements. Our customer-centric approach obliges us to engage you, as a client, in thorough consultations to really dig into and understand your business challenges and objectives. We collaborate closely, working hand-in-hand with your team throughout the project lifecycle. We dive in and customize solutions at any time you need, developing bespoke AI solutions that deliver maximum market value for you. And, of course, we keep you well-informed at every stage of the project, with regular updates and feedback sessions. Market-defining technologies We leverage the latest tools and technologies to deliver innovative AI solutions that push your business forward to the market’s forefront. Our tech stack includes AI and ML platforms (TensorFlow, PyTorch, and Keras), data storage solutions (databases like MongoDB, and PostgreSQL, and cloud storage options from AWS S3, Azure Blob Storage, and Google Cloud Storage), Big Data technologies (Apache Hadoop and Apache Spark for large-scale data analytics), and more. Experience sharing and support From discovery to deployment, we provide end-to-end support to grant the success of AI initiatives. We also share all the takeaways, important points, and expertise milestones along the way. Our comprehensive support services include: initial consultation (we assess your current capabilities and find fitting AI opportunities), customized solution design (we develop tailored AI strategies and roadmaps), development and integration (building and integrating AI models with your existing systems), testing and validation (combined automated and manual testing scenarios), ongoing maintenance (timely updates and bug fixes), and training and upskilling (our specialists equip your team with the skills and knowledge needed to leverage AI technologies most effectively). About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our achievements Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company FAQ What are AI consulting services, and why are they essential for businesses? AI consulting services guide businesses, startups, and entrepreneurs when they need to efficiently integrate AI software or tech of any kind into their existing operations. Dedicated AI consultants can help maximize the potential of AI in your particular workflow scenarios and achieve intelligent automation throughout. In particular, the consultants aid in making sure you are picking the most cost-efficient, integration-ready, and high-performance AI solutions from the start. How do AI consulting services align with business objectives? Our AI consultants analyze your business in-depth and from all sides, finding opportunities where AI can add real value and helping to develop tailored solutions. Then, we also help to efficiently integrate them with any type of running workflow or software system, taking good care of all the sensitive data and boosting business performance in the process. What technical aspects do AI consulting services cover? AI consulting services may cover various technical aspects, including data science and architecture, intelligent model development and training of AI and machine learning models, system testing and integration, solution deployment, and continuous learning of your own staff on the technical experience of ours. What industries can benefit from DICEUS AI consultancy and development services? Fields like finance, healthcare, retail, manufacturing, and logistics, among others, can benefit from DICEUS AI consultancy and development services in a major way. If you operate in any of those, we are ready to help you acquire authentic cutting-edge solutions that enhance overall business performance both internally and externally. What ML- and AI-powered solutions does DICEUS build? DICEUS builds a wide range of ML- and AI-powered solutions, including fraud detection systems, data mining tools, AI-driven data analytics platforms, and content analysis solutions using OCR and NLP technologies. But we can handle more than that if need be, implementing generative AI models, training computer vision and conversational AI models, setting up robotic process automation and recurring neural networks, and even providing support for vector machines. Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman