RiskVille cloud solution for risk and insurance management Services provided UI/UX design Mobile app development Custom software development Expertise used Cloud solutions BI and reporting Industry Insurance Project overview Riskville is a single database that helps manage customers and business records as well as track all the insured and self-insured assets. It is aimed to organize and streamline all the processes related to risks, claims, and insurance in one system. Client RiskVille Team 10 members Country Denmark Duration 2 years Client information RiskVille offers a cloud-based solution for insurance companies to manage and automate their everyday business activities. It serves the needs of agencies to manage benefits, commercial, and personal lines. The solution has already proved its high performance and efficiency in claims management, risk management, policy management, and customer self-service support. Business challenge RiskVille came to DICEUS to develop a secure and easy-to-use platform to manage core operations with insurance policies, risks, and claims in one place. Our customer wanted to create a platform that will provide all the critical features for insurance-related activities like rating, quoting, billing, claims and risks management, storing and analyzing customer information. Technical challenges The technical challenge was to create a light cloud-based all-in-one flexible insurance platform, which could automate and manage risks, incidents, claims, and insurance policies. It was required to create a multi-modular solution that would be implemented within 3 days and customized to any agency without developers’ involvement and at no additional costs. Solution delivered Our team developed the most comprehensive solution available for all aspects of captive management, insurance and risk management. Riskville is a single secure database allowing consolidation, control, risk management. As a result, our customer got a solution with useful digital options that allow users to easily handle their customer records, business units, and manage workflows, import and export data, and develop group structures by applying an innovative hierarchy tool. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features 360-degree customer view Agencies can create complete customer profiles that store such data as contacts, demographics, policies, and other documents. This functionality allows using historical and real-time data to conduct substantive analysis and forecasting. As the main benefit, you can create more personalized insurance product offerings. Policy management Riskville provides standard policy templates to simplify your routine activities. You can also customize the templates according to various risk coverage and compliance regulations. When the policy is expired, rest assured it will be renewed automatically. Risk management RiskVille solution has a comprehensive toolset for risk management, including risk identification, monitoring, assessment, and reporting. Using the latest analytics tools, you can forecast risks for all types of assets and develop the respective premiums programs. Claims management Self-service capabilities allow for reporting customer claims online. Reporting will be customized if you have any specific requirements. Your employees will be notified of incoming claims. On-time claims management improves customer satisfaction rate. Value to our client 3 days for implementation It takes only a few days to implement and customize the solution for your agency. Customization can be performed without developers and at no additional costs. All-in-one insurance solution RiskVille is able to streamline any insurance processes including rating, quoting, policy management, risk management, and claims management. 360-degree customer view RiskVille allows generating customer profiles with all the necessary data, including policies and documentation. Users can look through customer history and behavior. Our tech stack Microsoft Azure Cloud HTML Bootstrap Visual Studio C# .NET Core Jetbrains Navicat Git Jira WebStorm SSL (CloudFlare) Our other cases Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman