Restaurant rewards platform and apps Services provided UI/UX design Web app development Mobile app development Manual testing Automated testing System integration Expertise used Cloud solutions Industry Restaurants Retail Project overview Our client contacted us to improve their solution for coffee manufacturers and distributors. It’s a digital tool for the customer rewards program, such as free coffee or discounts. It also includes online shop functionality, remote orders, and coffee delivery. The platform consists of a mobile app for clients, an app for sellers, an administrative system, and a database. Business challenge Customer rewards programs are familiar to many businesses, especially restaurants. The most straightforward example is “order ten, get one for free”. Numbers may change, but the idea is trendy as customers can get free stuff while businesses maintain stable order flow. However, physical tracking via cards or stickers is outdated now. Our client devised a plan to digitize these programs and invested in this project. Our team started working on the solution. Initially, we helped with design only but then expanded our services to meet new business needs: from rewards management to online shopping, orders, and delivery. Technical challenges The entire cooperation included several stages. The client had some experience in software development, but the project was too complex and broad, so we joined forces. We started with the design and digitization of client-seller interaction and moved to the advanced end-to-end retail system. Developers used .NET and Microsoft Azure for back-end parts, as well as Xamarin for cross-platform mobile applications for iOS and Android. Solution delivered The core of the solution is the digital rewards management system with four apps and an administrative system. This base allows clients to get free coffee after several orders, through app scanning. Customers also can collect bonus points based on their spending and then purchase goods in the online shop. Finally, the solution offers automated discounts, remote ordering in the chosen restaurants, and coffee delivery. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Rewards management process A user can show a unique code in his/her app, and a seller can scan it. Information is stored in the personal profiles of all customers. Coffee shops can track rewards, add bonus points, and give free coffee. Bonus points Apart from getting goods for orders, customers can earn points for spending money. The more you spend, the more you get. For this virtual currency, customers can purchase coffee and other things in the shop. Discount groups As long as the solution relies on mobile phone numbers, it has a unique feature. It’s possible to set automated discounts for any number in the system, for instance, 25% for everybody from the neighbor office. Online shop Using the client app, customers can choose between different affiliate shops and then purchase the desired products. This module also supports delivery and coffee-to-go in advance. Payment system integration For any order, it’s possible to pay using the same app. It works with direct card payments. As well, it has an in-built wallet that users can top up and pay with it. Deposits to other wallets are supported, too. Administrative functionality The back-office part of the entire system supports comprehensive reporting and management. This version is web-based, it’s available for the eligible client employees only. Value to our client New opportunities on the market From just rewards, we helped our client to move to online shopping and direct delivery. Optimized client-seller interaction Thanks to the digital solution, our client can connect to clients faster. It’s made through apps and the online shop. Payments through the wallet As long as users deposit money to wallets, the client company can get revenue in advance. Our tech stack C# .NET Core Android iOS Microsoft Azure Cloud SQL Xamarin Vue.js Our other cases Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain Retail eCommerce project for Total Image Group Software product Security solution for Gunnebo Retail ERP project for Total Image Group Retail TekTelic new website case Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman