Fintech software development services DICEUS provides fintech software development services, including professional tech advisory and support since 2011. Send your request Fintech software development expertise Fintech software development services allow up-to-date finance-related providers, like banks, insurance agencies, and investment firms, to acquire customized digital solutions and take performance, productivity, and sales to the next level of quality and speed. Agencies and providers across any industry, including healthcare and education, can tap into innovative software solutions for seamless payments, P2P transactions, and data analysis. Furthermore, startups and idea-driven entrepreneurs can order individual services, developing any required features and capacities for unique fintech solutions. DICEUS is your one-stop, full-cycle fintech software development company of choice, where qualified specialists with a proven track record are ready to take on the creation of desktop, web, and mobile banking solutions of any scope and purpose. Here’s what we do: Fintech apps Enrich your financial services with a modern and secure fintech app powered by the latest technologies. We build mobile banking app, payment applications, finance management apps, blockchain-fueled software with an in-depth understanding of your business. Learn more Payments Use professional fintech development services to develop a custom payment gateway or a peer-to-peer solution for payments. We offer both custom development and configuration of ready-made gateways to meet your needs and business goals. Learn more Lending We offer end-to-end custom development, modernization, and integration of loan management software solutions for financial organizations and banks. All solutions are produced to help our clients gain efficiency in their operations and reduce costs. Learn more Money transfers Implement cloud-based software for money transfers that will give you a 360-degree view on customers, real-time and historical data monitoring, user-friendly dashboards, and a lot of opportunities to grow. We handle both custom development and ready-made customization projects. Learn more Blockchain Our fintech software development company can help your financial organization build and offer to your clients advanced blockchain-based solutions for cost-effective payments and transfers, secure authorization, and better cybersecurity. Learn more Regulatory compliance We help financial organizations better deal with compliance regulations with the help of technology. In case you have any pressing issues with compliance, our experts will identify the right technology solutions for you based on in-depth business analysis. Learn more AI and ML integration Our advanced AI and machine learning solutions for in-depth, smart financial analysis help providers and financial institutions leverage data for predictive analytics, customer insights, and automated decision-making, keeping all finance data in one well-protected, accessible place. Personal finance management Analyzing closely the needs and desires of your end-users, we create tailored apps and tools for effective budget management, expense tracking, and financial planning, all designed to provide personalized financial insights and advice on the latest global market trends and shifts. We help many of our customers better understand what challenges they can overcome by adopting fintech. The fintech ecosystem is growing rapidly and unites thousands of solutions for payments and transfers, lending and financing, insurance, financial management, markets, and exchanges. Our team has strong experience providing fintech software development services by implementing ready-made solutions and custom apps. We not only deliver innovative software products but also ensure professional tech advisory and support to manage changes to architecture that arise after implementation. fintech software development Pinch and spread for zoom According to EY Earlier, ease of opening an account was the top priority in consideration when selecting a FinTech provider. This has changed since, with price now being the top consideration. According to McKinsey Today, banks are in a fight for the customer, not only with other banks but also non-banks – superbanks (all-digital platforms), mobile banking apps, and fintech software-enabled platforms. Get professional consultation on your fintech project! Send your requirements Key advantages to choose DICEUS for fintech software development services Fintech expertise The financial industry has drastically changed as well as customer and market demands. If you want to stay competitive and deliver new up-to-date values to consumers, we are here to help you. Our team provides fintech development services to help you embrace new opportunities with artificial intelligence, big data, blockchain, cloud solutions, and many more. Innovation partner Our team has full-range fintech expertise, including lending management software, blockchain solutions, regtech, payments and transfers. That allows us to partner with various companies, from startups to billion-dollar organizations, to innovate and bring their ideas to life. We aim at becoming not only your software vendor but also a long-lasting, reliable partner for innovation. Focus on results We are a result-oriented fintech software development company offering teams where every member knows how valuable your time is. To ensure quality software product delivery, we have established a quality-driven software development flow where we use business analysis, work breakdown structuring, critical path analysis, and traceability matrix. Combined with Agile best practices, all that guarantees successful outcomes. High quality Well-defined quality assurance processes, regular code reviews and cross-code reviews, and the latest bug tracking tools are among the key factors leading to project success. Before the cooperation, we define all the required metrics to measure the product quality in the service level agreement. Any bugs or other pressing issues are reported regularly to the client to inform them of further actions to be taken. Technology access Joining forces with DICEUS, you get to instantly leverage some of the latest, most relevant, field-proven technological tools, methodologies, and approaches. From flexible tech stacks encompassing all programming languages, frameworks, and design platforms you might need for full-cycle software development to custom AI models and smart solutions for pinpointed robotic process automation, we do it all. Valuable experience We do not simply fulfill our development services obligations and leave — we give you the long-term value of shared expertise and experience. That means disclosing industry-wide insights and principles of creating market-defining innovative solutions with your existing specialists. We can also set up an individual mentoring program to train and educate your developers or designers across the board. Our fintech development process We have a well-defined development process for every type of software product. Each project starts with the initial phase, and goes on with requirements gathering and business analysis. Next, come design and development stages, testing, and deployment. On the closure phase, we hand over all the project documentation and source code to the client and offer further technical support and maintenance. Business analysis Any fintech project starts with a discovery phase during which we collect all functional and non-functional requirements. Once we have all the requirements, we develop and document software specifications and agree those with you. The in-depth business analysis allows for avoiding project failure, minimizing risks and errors, and delivering the product as expected. UX/UI design Our fintech software development cycle continues with the design team joining in, analyzing preliminary data, and sketching out the outline of an intuitive, engaging, and to-the-point user interface. We dive deep into user journey analysis to create a smooth functional flow for financial operations and deliver a convenient and easy-to-navigate user experience. Development Our software development life cycle is built concerning best practices and approaches. Every project is run by a PMI-certified project manager, while the client is guided throughout the process by a key account manager. You can easily control the process, monitor the working hours of developers, see accomplished tasks via our unique customer portal. Testing The testing strategy is developed at the beginning of the project and is adhered to across the development. We define the required types of testing to be executed and perform it within the software development lifecycle. For fintech projects, testing is very critical as fintech software should ensure high security of data and functionalities. Deployment Your environment will be checked to identify if it is prepared for successful deployment. If we discover any issues, we will give notice to you and provide recommendations on how to resolve those. Before the deployment date, you will have to fix everything and be ready to collaborate with our specialists. Support and maintenance Troubleshooting, technical support, and maintenance are key services we offer after the software has been deployed. Use these services when you want to add new features, upgrade your software, or just need continuous technical support. Which organizations gain from developing custom fintech software? Custom fintech software development brings value to various industries and fields. The seasoned specialists at DICEUS have been providing services of all scopes and empowering clients like: Banks and financial institutions Enhanced digital banking services and higher customer engagement can be achieved through custom mobile banking apps and customer-tuned online platforms; Advanced fintech solutions help banks manage credit risk, market risk, and operational risk more effectively through real-time financial data analysis and predictive modeling; Tailored compliance solutions help banks adhere to dynamically changing regulations, avoiding extra fines and legal complications. Insurance companies Fintech software automates the claims process, reducing turnaround times and improving customer satisfaction through personalization and accessibility. AI-driven analytics can be leveraged to create fine-tuned personalized insurance offerings that meet the specific needs of individual clients. Implementing blockchain technology can enhance transparency and security in policy management and claims processing. Fintech startups Customized fintech solutions empower innovative concepts and products that stand out in the market and efficiently solve the pains of whole user audiences. Retail and e-commerce providers Custom-integrated payment gateways and digital wallets enhance the customer experience by providing secure, fast, and convenient payment options. Fintech solutions enable the creation of advanced loyalty programs that integrate with payment systems, driving customer retention and engagement. Buy Now, Pay Later (BNPL) services offer flexible financing options to customers, increasing sales and improving cash flow. Investment firms and wealth management agencies Custom portfolio management tools allow for real-time tracking, analysis, and optimization of investment databases and portfolios, helping firms deliver better returns for their clients. AI-driven robo-advisors offer automated investment strategies and portfolio management, catering to a broader client base. Big data and analytics help analyze, plan out, and make investment decisions and offer clients tailored financial advice. Healthcare providers AI-enabled systems can efficiently integrate with health insurance platforms for smart billing and claims processing. Fintech tools can offer patients flexible payment plans for medical expenses, improving healthcare service availability. We can implement secure, HIPAA-compliant payment processing systems for patient transactions. Real estate agencies Custom fintech solutions enable real estate firms to offer digital mortgage services, property financing, and investment platforms. Blockchain technology facilitates and secures real estate transactions, granting next-level transparency and fending off fraud. Online rental payment solutions streamline rental payments and management for property owners and tenants. About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Banking Data governance project for a bank Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Banking E-Murabaha – Islamic finance project on blockchain What our clients say Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Frequently asked questions What is fintech software, and why is it important? Fintech software is the software built with the involvement of innovative technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning, robotic process automation, blockchain, and a combination of some of these. Fintech is opening new opportunities to banks and financial organizations to increase customer satisfaction, improve efficiency, and reduce operational costs. We help you get the maximum out of those opportunities, delivering top-of-the-line customized digital banking solutions for banks, agencies, and enterprises, smart payment gateways, personal finance management apps, online platforms, marketplaces, and exchanges, mobile banking apps, and more. What services are provided by a fintech development company? Fintech software development company provides custom development, implementation, testing, integration and other services related to fintech adoption and handling after-implementation effects. These companies act as technology partners to banks, insurance companies, fintech startups, and regtech businesses. We can become your trusted partner, equipping your company, startup, or individual project with the right technology, latest insights, and thoroughly analyzed features targeted to engage and satisfy your target audience. We provide full-on assistance with every type of service we deliver, giving you long-term value. How much time will it take you to develop my fintech software? The duration of fintech project varies and usually depends on lots of factors. Mainly, these factors include the project scope and complexity, chosen technology and platforms, time-to-market urgency. What professional service delivery guarantees can you provide? DICEUS is an expert team of highly experienced professionals with over twelve years of fieldwork powered by cutting-edge technologies and custom tools. We have efficiently delivered over 150 projects from eight offices situated all over the globe and house more than 250 specialists qualified in all relevant technologies, methodologies, and workflow organization approaches. We leverage an extensive tech stack to provide over a hundred types of fintech software development services. We tailor development cycles to individual needs and offer custom services if you need something beyond our long list of offerings. We also boast tech partnerships, certificates, and accolades—check out our About Us page! Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman