Cloud platform development for Take Note Services provided Software audit Software architecture Web app development Custom software development System integration Dedicated team Expertise used BI and reporting Cloud solutions Industry Software product Project overview Take Note is an e-commerce business providing transcription and captions via the cloud platform. It includes the transcription interface for browsers, a media player, a mobile application for clients, and the entire internal workflow. We were hired to develop the cloud solution that enables e-commerce, tracks progress, and ensures the company can operate efficiently through managing all customer requirements and fulfillment. Our expert in the team handles features, integrations, bug fixes, optimization, maintenance, and security upgrades, big and small. Client Take Note Team 1 member Country United Kingdom Duration 12 months Client information Take Note is an online transcription business established in 2006 and serving industries such as Market Research, Academia, Medical, Publishing, Legal & HR. The company provides a wide range of solutions, from captions for video-makers to summarized transcripts of important meetings and research projects, through to full verbatim records. Take Note has an office-based project team in London and a distributed workforce of 600 across the UK. Business challenge Take Note is a fast-growing online transcription service. The company’s management decided to outsource the development of its new cloud platform, keeping in-house product managers and Scrum masters. However, the team had encountered several issues with development partners, either not having the same commitment to quality or the best possible outcomes. For this client, we analyzed the business and technology needs and offered the best cooperation model based on outsourcing. Technical challenges The client invested in building an end-to-end cloud-based platform. It is based on PHP, combined with the MongoDB database and REST API functionality. The main challenge has been the ERP-grade size and scale of the platform. It had to handle the entire workflow, from the first interaction with a customer to producing final invoices. The Take Note platform’s objective centers around the best user experience and highly secure services. Hence, we had to ensure this quality level. Solution delivered The final cloud system for Take Note covers all areas of the business. It offers a secure and smooth experience for clients and helps to run the whole operation with optimum efficiency. The solution allows our client to manage orders, workflows, resources, and progress of any cooperation seamlessly. It integrates with the website and supports API connections. Overall, the project is incredibly significant as part of the brand’s digital transformation. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features E-commerce tool Helps Take Note to compete impressively online with high-quality CX and full transparency. Resource and progress management The comprehensive back-office modules optimize workflows, helping the company to deliver efficiently and reliably to clients. Seamless connections We designed a system that connects the whole business, internal modules, web interfaces, and a mobile app. Transcription platform integration The cloud solution connects to client web services, providing a highly efficient API for clients. Value to our client End-to-end process management We guarantee that the solution covers all workflow stages, including online ordering, progress tracking, resource management, and full invoicing details. High security Take Note works with sensitive client data, it maintains perfect privacy and security through the cloud platform. One web interface for end-users Via the company’s website (takenote.co), people can obtain quotes, upload files, choose the demanded service, and get the results. REST API Efficient and secure API that enables direct integration with client platforms, quicker delivery of results. Our tech stack Angular PHP MongoDB HTML Client feedback We were relieved when we started the work with DICEUS, the competence level promised, was evident with a real commitment to quality. They gained a quick understanding of our business which meant they were highly productive very quickly. The price was also competitive, reducing the costs of working with our previous partner in India and probably halving the price we would pay for less qualified developers in the UK. David Abbott Take Note CEO Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman