Insurance policy management software development services DICEUS is a custom insurance policy management software company founded in 2011. For many years, we have been creating personalized customer-centric solutions for the insurance sector. Talk to expert Estimate project Insurance policy management software development services help carriers build a solution to reduce manual work, improve decision-making, and keep and perform all policy-related workflows in a single centralized hub. It ensures end-to-end processes for issuing, modifying, renewing, and upgrading policies. Must-have functionalities also include underwriting, quoting, claims processing, and customer service. Although there is a lot of off-the-shelf software for insurance policy management, DICEUS recommends considering bespoke solutions as they have considerable advantages and value to businesses. Benefits of implementing custom insurance policy management software Tailored to specific needs Every insurance company operates differently, so bespoke software can provide the flexibility in aligning with risk selection processes, policy issuing, and renewals. Before developing a solution, our experts will discover your business goals and workflows to fully meet your requirements. Enhanced customer experience Policy handling system can be enriched with self-service features for policyholders encouraging them to access their policies, submit claims, and find information easily. It saves time of insurance company personnel for more business-critical issues and tasks. Automated processes Routine tasks such as policy issuance, premium calculations, endorsements and other policy-related processes can be automated to reduce manual work and errors. Automation covers data validation, notification triggers, document generation. Therefore, you can reduce the workload on human resources and reduce operational costs. Scalability As your business grows, it needs more space for increased volumes of data, users, and transactions. Tailor-made software allows carriers to handle larger volumes of data (policies, customers, claims, transactions, etc.) without involving more human resources and additional software solutions. Need insurance policy management software development services? Contact our team to get professional consulting and a project estimate Send request Key features of insurance policy management systems The functionalities of custom insurance software solutions, policy management, depend on your organization’s specific needs and are defined before the development. Here is a list of major features that are usually built for policy management. Policy lifecycle This feature covers the management of the entire policy lifecycle, including the issuance, endorsement, renewals, and cancellation. Underwriting rules To evaluate risks and approve insurance policies, automated underwriting rules are built to manage risk selection. Premium calculations This functionality helps to accurately calculate premiums considering various factors affecting the price (risks, coverage options, discounts, etc.). Endorsements Make changes to policies if needed (address, bank detail, personal data updates, etc.) with version controlling. Customer portals Customer-facing portals allow policyholders to view their policies, update those, and access a lot of other self-service features, without contacting an insurance company or agents. Agent/broker portals The same as with customer portals, agents or brokers get access to self-services to independently create quotes and issue policies. Communication with customers Modern digital tools like mobile apps and chatbots allow to provide first-class online interaction between an insurer and a customer. Integration with other software solutions Bespoke policy management systems can be seamlessly integrated with other systems a carrier uses to ensure end-to-end policy administration. Before the development, we discover what systems you need to integrate and if there are any challenges. Our team chooses the most appropriate tech stack to do that. The systems we have experience with include the following: Core insurance systems Dara warehouses Customer relationship management systems Billing systems Claim management software Payment gateways Regulatory databases Types of policy management systems we build Life insurance policy management software Health insurance policy management Property and casualty policy systems Travel insurance policy management Group insurance policy administration solutions Multi-line platforms Our insurance policy management software development services Development from scratch The main advantage of the insurance policy management system is obtaining a unique product designed to solve specific tasks set by the company. The disadvantage is that the cost and time required to implement such a system are significantly higher than the cost and time needed to create a product with specific standard solutions. Therefore, this option works best when no insurance policy administration software on the market meets the company’s needs by at least 20-25% or solves at least one local task in the company’s workflow. Integration services APIs can be used to solve a wide variety of tasks. One of the purposes includes providing information in a user-friendly environment. For example, such information may consist of data about insurance offers, locations of offices and agents, and insurance calculators. Another purpose is to simplify agent-client communication when collecting documents and images, submitting applications, and paying the bills. Custom development Instead of a ready-made solution fitting everyone or, at best, somewhat adapted for you, this approach gives you a product initially explicitly developed for your business needs and tasks. This ensures that the software product will solve your problems and help you achieve your ultimate goal. Besides, this approach makes your product unique for customers and turns disadvantages into advantages with the help of technology. System modernization The main advantage of this option is that the insurance company will work with one contractor in one insurance policy management software, which will determine the requirements for the product’s maintenance and implementation. However, the product can be modified for the insurance company’s specific needs at a lower cost than developing a solution from scratch. This option, among other things, makes it possible to create consolidated statements with all the indicators needed for the company. Business process automation We conduct a discovery phase to detect all challenges you have and offer solutions to address these challenges. With the right technology solution, you will be able to automate underwriting, endorsements, renewals, and communications to reduce manual errors and increase operational efficiency. Want to discuss your project requirements? Contact us Our ready-made software solutions for insurance If you want to quickly implement a policy management solution, we recommend exploring our Policy Administration System, which offers a special module for policy management. It is a ready-made module that ensures key operations of policy management. More ready-made insurance software products from DICEUS: AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Commercial Insurance Policy Management Software Mobile App (Health, Life, Car, and other types of insurance) Customer Portal with Self-Service DWH AI-Based Chatbot Benefits of our insurance policy management software development services DICEUS has vast experience developing software solutions for insurance companies and brokers such as UNIQA, Fairfax Group, Vienna Insurance Group, WTW, and many more. Our knowledge helps us build software that meets customers’ expectations and addresses the challenges they face. We start each project with an in-depth discovery phase that includes industry analysis. It means that we follow technology trends applicable in your industry and see how their implementation can be valuable to your business. In-depth industry analysis DICEUS has vast experience developing software solutions for insurance companies. We start each project with an in-depth discovery phase that includes industry analysis. It means that we regularly follow technology trends applicable in a focus industry and see how their implementation can be valuable to your business. High software quality Our team can guarantee the high quality of the software as we have a well-organized quality assurance process, including all types of manual and automated tests required for your specific project. Before the deployment phase, project stakeholders are involved in user acceptance testing to ensure the highest quality and customer satisfaction with the solution developed. Insurtech expertise We are carefully monitoring all changes in approaches to insurance through the use of modern technologies such as artificial intelligence, telematics, big data, blockchain, and many more. Thanks to this synergy, we offer our clients affordable, high-quality, and custom-tailored products that help them reach a competitive advantage over the classic insurance companies due to their minimal administrative costs and the newest technologies implemented. Highly skilled developers The developers at our company use the most modern IT technologies to provide a high level of customer service quality. We offer innovative solutions for insurance policy management that will open up excellent prospects for your business and create a competitive advantage. Our development team is ready to offer custom insurance policy software for small, medium, and large insurance companies. We are familiar with the specifics of the businesses that operate in each category of insurers, and we offer the most effective solutions for each of them. Key facts about DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 8 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our partnerships Our insurance policy software development process Discovery phase At this stage of developing insurance administration software, we study the specifics of your business – we get familiar with the information you provide, and analyze your competitors. Based on the identified problems, we create a strategy for the project implementation by determining what software and which specialists are needed to solve your challenges. As a result, you will receive an approximate time frame for completing the task. UI/UX design During this phase, our team focuses on designing a user-friendly design to meet the needs of underwriters, agents, policyholders, brokers, etc. Our UX specialists conduct research on user persona, create wireframes and prototypes, test usability to ensure smooth workflows and easy access to policy data for all users. Development phase At this stage, our team begins to implement an agreed-upon software development plan to manage insurance policies. A certified manager who knows the essence of the project in all details coordinates the work of the entire team of specialists. The project manager is fluent in English and is always ready to promptly resolve any issues that arise during the software development process, for example, reporting when the work is done, discussing different new suggestions that occur during the development process, etc. Testing and QA Our QA engineers prepare test strategies and a plan based on the specifics of your project and solution requirements, create and optimize a set of test cases, look for any defects, create and send reports on detected defects to the developers, and verify defect elimination. The task of assuring the quality of the product can be performed by an internal department of the company or it can be delegated to an independent contractor, who can properly evaluate the solution itself and set up quality assurance processes. Thus, we will ensure the launch of a high-quality product that would meet all the business requirements and expectations of the users of insurance policy admin systems. Deployment This is a set of actions that make policy management services available for use. Typically, the deployment of the application is done by the customer. At the same time, we do not leave our customers on their own with potential technical problems that may occur during the deployment process. We will thoroughly test your policy admin system in insurance and provide guidance on how to fix gaps and potential technical issues. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing What impacts your project duration The timeline for software development can vary from a few weeks to several months or even years. The total duration of the project depends on several important aspects. Project requirements Time-to-market Team composition Chosen technology stack Integration needs What affects your project costs The cost of software development depends on the complexity of the project. The level of difficulty is determined by the following parameters. Scope of work and project’s complexity The number of upgrades and customizations Project completion urgency Engagement model: Time and Material, Dedicated Team Integration with other systems What we need from your side To make sure the project development process follows the pre-agreed plan and is completed on time, we ask you to do the following: Describe your business goals Provide your product and policy details (sample documents, rules, workflows, etc.) Discuss existing processes and challenges Share a list of systems you need to integrate with a policy management solution Participate in other required discussions about the future software product Participate in user acceptance testing and be ready to provide feedback Our achievements Our tech stack Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Explore our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company Frequently asked questions Why is policy management software important? Developing applications for insurance companies is an important step in scaling a business and in establishing a proper interaction between the company and the client. This field of business is highly competitive and very specialized; therefore, the introduction of modern technologies will create new opportunities, attract more new customers, and simplify customers’ interactions with the company. Call us and get a detailed consultation on how to implement mobile applications for insurance companies in your business. How to improve policy management with technology? It all depends on the application’s functionality. A lot of applications for insurance companies have the following functions: calling an agent, extending insurance online, maintaining an account, collecting documents, collecting photos and videos, and calling emergency services. You can also get expert advice and answers to your questions in the application. It is a helpful tool for better interaction between a client and a business, which helps an insurance company to become more open and transparent for everyone. Do you provide IT consulting and software audits? Yes. We offer all of the tools for IT analysis of any application developed by our company or third-party developers. We have all the up-to-date tools that help to identify the problems and weaknesses of any proposal at our disposal. Our consulting services cover the entire spectrum of the software life cycle – from methodology and agreeing on communication plans to developing the right approaches for regulation and analytics and choosing the right metrics to properly evaluate software quality. What is policy management software? Policy management software automates the creation, administration, renewal, and tracking of insurance policies. It supports both insurers and policyholders by streamlining operations, improving accuracy, and enhancing user experience. Who needs custom policy management software? Insurance companies, MGAs, TPAs, and insurtech startups benefit from custom solutions tailored to their specific products, workflows, and compliance needs. It’s ideal for businesses that require flexibility, integrations, or unique functionality not available in off-the-shelf platforms. Related services Risk management Claims management Agency management Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman