Insurance software solutions and development services DICEUS offers ready-made software products for insurers, brokers, MGAs, TPAs, and other insurance businesses. Along with that, we provide system integration and custom insurance software development services. Let’s connect Our ready-made software solutions for insurance AI-Based Underwriting Workbench A digital platform for underwriters that supports decision‑making with AI, provides account insights, and ensures effective collaboration with brokers, MGAs, and other partners. Learn more about AI-Based Underwriting Workbench Individual and Group Insurance Management Platform Comprehensive insurance management platform for businesses and employees to manage health, life, pension, auto, and other insurance plans and benefits. Learn more about Individual and Group Insurance Management Platform Policy Administration System A ready‑made policy administration system with modules to manage policies, products, claims, and billing. Built for insurers, captives, and captive managers. Learn more about Policy Administration System DWH for insurance Our DWH solution grows with your business and is built to adapt as your data needs evolve. We offer DWH implementation and maintenance to support the emergence of new data sources. Learn more about DWH for insurance Customer Web Portal A self‑service customer portal that encourages clients to purchase insurance products and services online. It offers functionalities such as policy comparison, quoting, purchasing, claim reporting, and status tracking. Learn more about Customer Web Portal Broker Portal A pre‑built digital portal allowing brokers to prepare policies, create invoices, monitor claims, manage customer relationships, and track analytics in one place. Learn more about Broker Portal Super App Health insurance Life and unit‑linked products Car insurance Learn more about Super App Captive insurance A modular, ready‑made policy administration system for captives and captive managers to manage products, policies, and claims in a centralized place. Learn more about Captive Insurance Software AI-Powered Chatbot A conversational solution powered by LLMs that understands context, recognizes both voice and written messages, and ensures a personalized customer experience. Learn more about AI-Powered Chatbot Benefits of our ready‑made software products Built for insurance Since 2011, we've been delivering tailored software solutions to leading insurers and brokers‑including Vienna Insurance Group, UNIQA, Fairfax Group, and WTW. This experience has deepened our understanding of the insurance sector and its unique challenges, allowing us to develop solutions that truly meet industry needs. We also regularly monitor industry challenges by attending insurtech events to continuously improve our solutions so that they meet your current requirements. Fast implementation Ready-made software implementation involves installing pre‑built solutions that can satisfy specific requirements or needs for the insurance industry. Such an approach is cost‑saving and profitable as it doesn't require expensive enterprise systems and ensures fast time-to-market. Integration capabilities All products from our software suite can be integrated with the required systems you use (core insurance systems, DWH, EMR, EHR, billing, CRM tools, payment gateways, and others). Our approach ensures seamless data flow and operational continuity by using APIs and middleware connectors tailored to your infrastructure. This flexibility enables faster deployment, reduced manual effort, and enhanced system interoperability. Talk to our insurance software expert Contact us Our custom insurance software development services Our key services for insurance include CRM system implementation, middleware implementation, DWH and data analytics development, and custom software development. CRM system implementation We implement CRM systems for insurance companies, either as standalone solutions or integrated with core systems. Our services ensure smooth data migration, real-time analytics, workflow alignment, and compliance with data security standards. Middleware implementation We deploy middleware to connect insurance systems with external apps or services, enhancing data exchange and interoperability. Using platforms like MuleSoft, Informatica, AWS, Google Cloud, and MicroStrategy, we streamline system integration and drive digital innovation. DWH, data analytics, and reporting We build centralized data warehouses for insurers to manage large data volumes and enable advanced analytics. Our solutions support KPI-based dashboards, regulatory reporting, and informed decision-making across claims, risks, finances, and more. End-to-end custom software development From discovery to maintenance, we deliver full-cycle custom software development for insurance. Solutions include modules for policy and claims management, as well as full‑scale core systems and mobile apps—tailored to meet each client's unique needs. Operations Operations Lines Software product Other Operations Underwriting software development Risk management software development Claims management software development Policy management software development Policy administration software development Contact management software development Data analytics software development Claims analytics software development Lines Health insurance claims management software development P&C insurance software development Software product Insurance mobile app development Insurance portal software development Insurance digital channels Other Agency management software development Insurance automation software development Insurance customer experience Insurance fraud detection software development Insurance software testing and QA services Benefits of custom insurance software development Unique solution Custom software usually has unique features that can differentiate your insurance business in the market. By offering functionalities that set you apart from competitors, you retain existing customers, attract more new clients, and earn more revenue. How do we build unique solutions? Before the development phase, our experts conduct a discovery phase after which you get valuable insights: recommended tech stack, team composition, findings of CX research, project roadmap and timeline, etc. Scalability As your insurance business grows, it needs more space to store various data, expand to new markets, support new insurance products, etc. We consider scalability potential by discovering your short-term and long-term business plans, including your plans for product line and market expansion, user base growth, data storage needs, multi-tenancy support, and other factors influencing scalability needs. Enhanced security Bespoke solutions are developed with industry-specific compliance and data protection requirements in mind. Together with a client, we discuss any regulatory compliance needs or other specific security needs they might have: role‑based access, sensitive data masking, secure and detailed activity logs, controlled API access, custom alerts set for unusual activities, etc. Data analytics Data analytics is often a key reasons insurers choose custom solutions as it is built with the purpose of tracking metrics specific to a particular company, its risk models, insurance products, customer segments, claim processes, etc. Any specific data can be visualized on real-time dashboards (customer insights, fraud, underwriting, forecasting, scenario modeling, loss ratio trends, and more). Who we help Insurance carriers Insurance brokers Reinsurance companies Managing General Agents Third-Party Administrators Why choose DICEUS 01 Experience Since 2011, we have developed software solutions for leading insurers and brokers, including such companies as UNIQA, Vienna Insurance Group, Fairfax Group, WTW, and others. Our experience is based on solid knowledge of the insurance sector, its challenges, and needs. This understanding allows us to offer the most effective solutions, whether custom-developed software or ready‑made products. 02 Ready-made software suited to your needs Our expertise within insurance software development facilitated the development of our ready‑made software suite for insurance businesses, brokers, MGAs, and TPAs. Unlike other offerings in the market, our software products can be tailored to suit your specific requirements. 03 Innovation With advanced technologies evolving every day, we consider the latest trends when developing our solutions for insurance. For example, we enriched our Underwriting Workbench with AI‑based decision intelligence and a Super App for health insurance companies with an AI‑powered Avatar symptom checker. 04 Strong software development expertise Along with out‑of‑the‑box insurance software, we provide custom software development for companies that need complex or specific systems, data migration services, legacy system modernization, or other IT‑related services. Our team has expertise in product engineering, business analysis, CX, software architecture, development, and testing. Our clients Testimonials Elena Markova Board Member UNIQA We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer's research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS' software implementation services. The team's workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we'd like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Ihor Zhyzhara Deputy Chairman of Board, Kniazha VIG DICEUS developed a chatbot for our insurance company's medical and technical assistance departments. Now, we can support our clients online 24/7 through popular messaging platforms. The key functionalities include doctor's appointment scheduling, sending doctor's reports, submitting claims, and buying insurance. I liked the quality of services and especially the communication with the team. View case Case studies BenefitNet insurance solution Applications for BriteCore’s P&C insurance core platform Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA FSA – a self-service benefits management solution RiskVille cloud solution for risk and insurance management Updated INSIS application for Fadata KloonRisk - an insurance broker solution for Kloud-Soft A B2B application for Risk Point Earth observation software for insurance niche Cloud sales app for Insly Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company All case studies Our partnerships VCIA The Vermont Captive Insurance Association (VCIA) is the world's largest trade association dedicated to captive insurance. About the partnership Insurtech UK Insurtech UK is a leading association that represents and supports the insurtech sector across the United Kingdom, promoting innovation and collaboration within the insurance technology landscape. About the partnership Swiss Insurtech Hub The Swiss Insurtech Hub is a collaborative initiative focused on accelerating innovation and building strategic partnerships within Switzerland’s insurance technology ecosystem. About the partnership InsureMO InsureMO is the global insurance API, Data, and AI Platform-as-a-Service connecting insurers, distributors, and ecosystem partners through a single API layer. About the partnership Blink Payment Blink Payment is a real‑time payments platform that enables instant account‑to‑account transfers through mobile devices or online banking, ensuring fast and seamless financial transactions. About the partnership Claim Technology Claim Technology is a UK‑based company offering AI‑powered, no‑code automation solutions designed to streamline and improve the efficiency of insurance claims processing. About the partnership Fadata Fadata is a leading global provider of the core insurance platform INSIS. DICEUS serves as an official implementation partner for INSIS, delivering expert support and seamless system integration. About the partnership Kruzr Kruzr is a smartphone‑based telematics and driver‑safety platform that helps insurers reduce risk through real‑time driving behavior detection, coaching, and rewards. About the partnership Tech stack It takes great skills and knowledge to develop software. Anyone who has ever created a technology solution understands how the right choice of the stack is important. Here you can see a list of programming languages, frameworks, databases, and platforms our IT company deals with. Don't miss our latest news Press releases 3 min. read · 13 Jul 2026 13 Jul 2026 DICEUS partners with Kruzr to power connected motor insurance Company news 1 min. read · 01 Jul 2026 06 Jul 2026 DICEUS named finalist for the British Insurance Technology Awards 2026 Company news 1 min. read · 19 Jun 2026 19 Jun 2026 DICEUS Policy Administration System is now available on the Microsoft Marketplace Read more insurance industry news and articles FAQ Can your software products be integrated with other systems? Yes, our solutions are designed with integration in mind. We offer API-based connectivity with core insurance systems, DWH, EMR, CRM, billing platforms, payment systems, and more. This ensures a smooth data flow across systems and minimizes manual work, enhancing your IT ecosystem’s interoperability. What is custom insurance software development? If you want to modernize your systems or add functionalities that align with your business goals, consider a custom insurance software development company. With the help of a professional vendor, you can customize, modernize, or build from scratch solutions for the most critical processes: underwriting, quoting, claim management, document management, and many more. Why do insurance companies need custom software? Bespoke software contributes to more efficient operations, intelligent decision-making, splendid customer experience, and increased revenue. Such products can be built in full confluence with the insurer's or agency's requirements without redundant features and extra expenditures. What features can be included in custom insurance software? Any functionality required by policyholders and the insurance company's staff can be included. Each functionality can work separately as a stand-alone solution or be integrated with other sub-systems. Essential features for agencies and carriers usually include CRM, policy administration, underwriting, quoting, claim management, document management, and more. Essential features for policyholders are policy purchase, claim filing, chatbot, access to mobile app, self-service functionalities, access to FAQ, etc. How does custom insurance software enhance data security? Tailor-made solutions can improve data security by implementing encryption mechanisms to protect sensitive data during transmission and storage, regular updates of security measures, control over user access, integration with security solutions like firewalls, and regular security audits. Is custom insurance software scalable for future business needs? Bespoke IT products are better scalable for future business needs than out-of-the-box solutions. It is ensured by modular architecture, scalable infrastructure, optimized performance, and Agile development practices. Explore how we can help you with our solutions and custom software development services Contact us Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman