TerraPoint cloud-based web solution for Terrabit Services provided Software architecture Web app development UI/UX design Manual testing System integration Custom software development Expertise used Cloud solutions Big data BI and reporting Industry Software product Project overview Today, networks rule the world. Any corporate establishment, be it a simple office, a big business infrastructure, a product warehouse, or a production facility, needs at least to be connected to the world wide web or even have an internal local network for in-house use. That is where network-specializing companies come into play to provide the best means of setting up such communications. An app we developed for Terrabit had the aim to bring providers of such services and their potential clients together. Client Terrabit Networks Team 5 members Country Singapore Duration 8 months Client information Terrabit Networks is a provider of network and communication solutions that covers a whole spectrum of technologies in telecommunications, cloud networks, IT infrastructure, innovative mobile solutions, system administration solutions, and many more. The company has managed to excel in IT services and acquire a wide range of clients on the international level. Business challenge The goal was to build a convenient application with an intuitive interface and niche-oriented functionality. The solution’s main purpose was to provide a hassle-free connection between network technologies providers, resellers, and interested customers, allowing everybody to contact each other and order services in one place. The main competitive point of this one is that users do not have to go far to find reliable providers and order services at once. Technical challenges The global task was to implement a web application with a user interface that allows different parties (resellers, customers, and engineers) to create a personal account with a dedicated dashboard. To make functionality-injected user pages work and be useful, we had to work on the underlying technical part – create management tabs (dashboard, requests, reports, and settings), enable notifications, provide secure personal chats, and more. Solution delivered TerraPoint is a web solution with an intuitive interface for flexible management and distribution of network providers’ and resellers’ services, and their purchases by customer users. Three types of users can create dedicated accounts – engineers, resellers, and customers. Each gets a page with five essential sections. Those are as follows: “dashboard” (unique for every type of user, holds a general overview, statistics, and notifications), “requests” for customers (a separate section for organizing deals), and “customers” for engineers and resellers (an interface for finding and contacting customers), “reports” (an analytics page), and “settings”. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Unique interfaces Engineers, resellers, and customers get individual dashboards to better manage their specific tasks and views. User notifications Users are notified of any updates and personal messages via email and in the app itself, via the admin panel. Web functionality The solution works out of the browser and stores all the data in the cloud so that everything is well-protected and failproof. Reports and statistics Statistics and reports on deals closed and the number of customers help get insights into professional activities. Value to our client Bridging the gap Both service providers and customers do not have to go far to find work or make requests – just launch a web app and make a deal. Cloud reliability A cloud-based hosting allows for reinforced data security and sturdy performance of the application without fails and lags. Personalization Different types of users get respective capabilities and sections, boosting overall engagement and level of user experience. Our tech stack .NET/ASP.NET Angular Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman