Insurance contact management software development services DICEUS is a high-profile IT vendor that has been present in the insurtech market for over 13 years. Our profound expertise in the niche and the customer-focused approach we practice allow us to deliver the best-in-class insurance solutions that live up to users’ expectations regarding seamless performance and simplicity in operating. Discuss project Estimate project For any modern insurance company, customer satisfaction is the ultimate goal. It can be achieved only by obtaining a 360-degree view of the clientele, which means carefully storing, organizing, and tracking information about them. Insurance contact management software, as an industry-specific variety of a customer relationship management (CRM) system, is a second-to-none tool for handling customer data efficiently and always having them at your fingertips. Benefits of custom contact management system Bespoke contact management software for insurance agents serves as a digital data bank that they can draw upon to retrieve all necessary information about clients. When created by competent professionals, it becomes a valuable asset for the organization since it: Helps optimize pipeline activities for automation A number of insurance workflows (lead, policy, and claim management, customer onboarding and support, underwriting, and more) can be streamlined and automated thanks to a tailor-made insurance contact management system. Improves data management Name, policy number, address, and other contact information are stored in one easily accessible place that serves as a single source of truth for the insurance organization’s personnel. Enhances productivity and efficiency As manual labor related to data processing is minimized, insurers perform routine operations much quicker and have more time to spend on other assignments. Boosts customer experience When augmented with specialized tools, insurance agent contact management software gives broad opportunities for the in-depth analysis of clients’ behavior, preferences, interests, and pain points. Being aware of such insights, insurance agents can customize their service range, offers, and campaigns to target individual customers with their unique needs. insurance contact management solution Pinch and spread for zoom Let’s discuss your requirements! Send request Basic features of custom insurance contact management software The list of features for a bespoke contact management solution is determined following unique project requirements. However, there are core functionalities that any product of this kind should contain. Lead management. It aims to capture and nurture leads to convert them into customers via reaching out to interested prospects and managing contacts with them. Account management. It is the system’s backbone, allowing insurance staff to collect customer-related data, segment people into groups, and monitor clients’ activities. Sales and marketing automation. This capability enables users to create and administer targeted campaigns, special promotions, and other marketing initiatives. Sales analytics and reporting. The feature is leveraged to look deep into the sales indices, detect trends, identify cross-selling and upselling opportunities, and create reports that will serve as actionable insights for the marketing department of an insurance organization. Consumer analytics. The module serves as a tool for scrutinizing customer data and actions to understand their motives and shape the engagement and selling strategy for certain groups of people and each person in particular. Document management. Thanks to this feature, insurance agents have round-the-clock access to any client-related document (policy, claim, EHR data, etc.), which streamlines and facilitates shop floor routine. Our achievements Our insurance contact management software development services The IT services DICEUS provides cover all needs of insurance agencies regarding high-tech products they leverage in their pipeline operations. CRM development A Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system is an upgraded and more intelligent version of contact management software that is used not only for storing customer data but also for in-depth analytics and reporting, organizing marketing and sales activities, and performing other client-focused functions. Custom software development We can tackle a full-cycle development of any bespoke insurtech product (including contact management solutions) from scratch. Also, we can build new modules of different capabilities that will work as a part of your existing IT ecosystem. Mobile app development Since mobile gadgets are the primary instruments modern people leverage to obtain insurance services, companies working in that field can’t ignore the mobile experience of their clientele. We can create robust mobile apps that will allow insurers to be always within easy reach of smartphone owners looking for insurance services. Web portal development We excel at building multifunctional IT venues where insurers and their clients can come into contact and satisfy their needs related to providing and receiving insurance services. Besides, the FAQ section and self-service features of insurance portals enable customers to solve many niche problems without the assistance of personnel. Chatbot development By making this AI-powered technology an element of your IT environment, you will not only boost user satisfaction by automating customer service to the maximum but also free your employees from answering typical queries and let them focus on more creative and complex tasks. Integrations You can make the most of every component in your IT ecosystem only if they play well with each other. We will seamlessly integrate all enterprise software solutions your insurance organization relies on in its shop floor processes into a single environment whose constituents act in harmony. Explore our solutions for insurance Discover Why choose DICEUS as your custom insurance contact management software development partner? 20 projects in the industry delivered for the major-league actors in the niche (UNIQA, BenefitNet, Willis, and BriteCore) A rich technology range consisting of standard programming languages, frameworks, and tools coupled with disruptive know-how (AI, ML, blockchain, IoT, etc.) Competent and certified IT personnel possessing a versatile array of hard and soft skills An established SDLC that has proved its efficiency and allows our team to deliver high-quality products About DICEUS 2011 the year DICEUS was established 150 projects delivered successfully 9 offices around the world Global Delivery Center in Poland 250 full-time tech professionals 100 IT services available Our partners Our SDLC Discovery phase Architecture and design Development Testing and QA Deployment Maintenance Client reviews Elena Markova Board Member, UNIQA Ukraine We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer’s research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Antoaneta Karagyozova CPSO, Fadata We are happy with DICEUS’ software implementation services. The team’s workflow is highly effective and professional in all aspects of the engagement. All clearly understand what goals we’d like to reach and do their best to do that as efficiently as possible. Overall, the partnership has been successful. View case Phil Reynolds CEO, BriteCore The DICEUS team has consistently supported the BriteCore team for many years. Their engineers are well-educated and highly invested in the ongoing quality of the BriteCore platform with sustained relationships that extend over four years. We appreciate everything the DICEUS team brings to the table as a development partner. View case Our case studies Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Insurance Mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot development for insurance company Kniazha Vienna Insurance Group Insurance Discovery phase and mobile app development for insurance company UNIQA Insurance Chatbot “Vitaminise” used by the insurance company FAQ What is insurance contact management software? It is a solution that contains the entire gamut of information about an insurance company’s clients (name, physical and electronic address, phone number, policy number, etc.). Being analogous to Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems employed in other industries, insurance contact management software performs essentially the same functions since it serves as a source of personal and contact data for insurance agents to refer to. Who uses insurance contact management software? The major users of the insurance contact management system are rank-and-file brokers and their managers. However, this software can be a good crutch for sales departments, marketing teams, customer service staff, and other client-facing employees. What are the benefits of custom insurance contact management software? A robust contact management solution can help insurance companies automate the lion’s share of their workflows, step up efficiency and productivity, improve data management, streamline sales processes, boost communication with the clientele, augment the level of analytics, identify cross-selling and upselling opportunities, and more. Let’s talk about your project needs 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman