Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Insurance Technology Solutions Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Fintech · 16 min. read · 4534 reads · 09 Jul 2024 09 Apr 2025 Personal finance app development in 2025: Step-by-step guide In the digitally powered world of the 21 st century, people are increasingly abandoning bulky wallets and going cashless in many spheres of their financial activities. The ubiquity of mobile phones allows them to pay for various services, buy products, conduct investment operations, transfer money between bank accounts, and perform other tasks thanks to multiple financial applications “inhabiting” their gadgets. However, being involved in the plethora of money-related errands, many of us still lack an adequate level of financial literacy and healthy spending habits. Personal finance apps are called to make up for this deficiency and streamline the money management process for high-tech-savvy individuals. This article will explain what a personal finance app is, showcase examples of money management apps, explore the target audience’s expectations from leveraging such solutions, enumerate essential features for personal finance applications, and outline a development process roadmap utilized to build a personal finance product. Are you searching for an experienced team to build a fintech app? Contact DICEUS Making the case for a personal finance management app Today, people use various mobile apps that help them improve different aspects of their everyday lives – from obtaining medical services to ensuring their property. A personal financial app is one of the high-tech tools launched by financial institutions and aimed at regulating and keeping track of your money. This type of financial management software’s use cases include accounting and budgeting, receiving financial reports, monitoring savings, earning, and spending, providing online banking services (such as making investments, payments, and transactions), offering insights about money management, augmenting financial literacy, and more. Such fintech products are in high demand and fill an ever-expanding personal finance software market worth $1.4 billion two years ago and is predicted to triple by 2032. The personal finance app market’s growth goes hand in hand with the sector’s revenues, which are also on a steady rise. personal finance app market revenue Pinch and spread for zoom Such mouth-watering prospects encourage astute entrepreneurs with far-reaching financial goals to invest in building their own finance apps. What are the best personal finance apps that reign supreme in the domain? Mint. This is one of the most popular personal finance apps in North America. During 15+ years of its presence in the niche, it has been installed by 15 million users who enjoy its single interface for all debit and credit accounts, capabilities for tracking expenses and managing financial planning (including daily budget overviews), extensive customization opportunities, visualization of financial data and other statistics, geolocation tracker to monitor spending venues, etc. PocketGuard. This viable alternative to Mint lives up to its name by highlighting a person’s assets on their financial accounts and warning them if they overshoot the budget. You Need a Budget (YNAB). Alongside regular features instrumental in tracking personal finances, this multi-platform budgeting app offers educational resources and practical advice on how to avoid running into debt and cope with financial crises (if you find yourself in the red). Moreover, you can always count on emotional support by visiting the app’s forum. EveryDollar is one of the most detailed budget apps that allows users to monitor their financial habits. The tool can automatically categorize users’ transactions to let the person see where they stay within and where they go over the budget. Customers can modify and expand the list of such categories. Prism. This is one of the top personal finance apps geared for paying bills. Its advanced features envisage the ability to sync with an infinite number of billers. Spendee. The app excels at managing shared expenses, enabling people to align household and personal budget planning. Mvelops. Thanks to it, you always have your capital under firm control. Using such an app, you will be able to save money (up to 10% of your income) that otherwise could have been spent on unnecessary things. As you see, the competition in the field of personal financial apps is rather intense, so if you dream of launching a successful product, you should first determine the type of personal finance management solution to build. Types of personal finance apps scrutinized All the finance apps are divided into several categories depending on the needs they cover. Personal finance app types Pinch and spread for zoom Money management apps. These are general-purpose products capable of classifying and tracking expenses. They provide a 360-degree view of a person’s financial situation by displaying how much they earn and spend, pinpointing areas for improvement within the latter category. Budgeting apps. They are honed for planning a user’s monthly financial flows and can help them meet their goals. As a rule, a person sets the amount they want to spend, and the app helps them stay within the selected margin. Spending tracker apps. Such narrow-purpose products are linked to the user’s bank account, enabling automatic expense monitoring. Thus, people become aware of their spending habits and learn to balance earnings and expenditures. Banking apps . Thanks to them, people can enjoy the full scope of online banking opportunities, such as payments for products and services, transferring money, opening or closing an account, NFC- and QR-powered transactions, 24/7 access to their financial information, and constant customer support. Investment apps are primarily meant not for managing but for earning money. Such apps allow even non-professionals to leverage marketing analytics and buy stocks, forming their investment portfolio. People can also track investments and withdraw money at their convenience. Peer-to-peer payment apps. Such solutions can be of great value for B2B organizations. They are synchronized with the user’s business accounts, enabling them to pay for services and products. Financial forecasting apps. All the advanced features of these apps are honed to leverage AI-powered mechanisms in financial data analytics. They estimate potential profits and expenses, analyze user behavior, and offer recommendations aimed at optimizing financial flows and using their resources wisely. No matter what type of personal finance apps we speak about, their users have similar expectations regarding their functioning. What do users expect from personal finance apps? As a vetted mobile app development company that has delivered dozens of fintech products to satisfied customers, we at DICEUS know what people anticipate to receive when they make a finance app a part of their personal digital ecosystem. Quicken is an example of a personal finance app. Consult DICEUS to develop your solution. Personal finance app Pinch and spread for zoom User-friendly interface Since, for most people, financial operations are a kind of a tall order, apps aren’t supposed to make it even taller by offering a hard-to-navigate and cluttered UI. People like to have a straightforward and easy-to-understand app’s user interface that will allow them to access and operate financial information in a no-sweat way. Flexibility and customization Each user has their own preferences regarding the look of elements or types of reports and expenditure categories they want to see in the app. Being able to tailor them to one’s tastes is highly appreciated. Besides, people like to see an identical picture on all their gizmos, so cross-device synchronization is a welcome option. Strong security and data privacy Since fintech products deal with people’s personal and financial data, their inviolability and safety are top concerns for users. That is why they want to be sure adequate security measures are implemented. App creators should adopt a security-first approach during the software development cycle and provide their product with a secure login process based on two-factor authentication and data encryption, perform penetration testing and security audits, and comply with GDPR, ISO 270001, and other legal regulations mandatory for financial organizations. Need to develop a personal finance application? Check out our fintech software development services . Data visualization Financial analytics is not a task for non-professionals. Yet, most personal finance app users belong to this category. To make finance management accessible to them, such apps should have data visualization mechanisms in place. Easy-to-understand dashboards, infographics, diagrams, and charts present a user-friendly and interactive format that makes data and analytics readable for average people. The report-generating functionality can be of great help for more advanced users. Integration with banks and payment systems Modern financial service consumers have several accounts in different banks. To streamline managing finances across all of them, a solid personal finance app should pool them together in one place. Besides, it should cover all major payment systems to give users a wide range of options to employ at their discretion. Gamification Of course, fintech apps aren’t built for fun. But it doesn’t mean they have to be boring to deal with. A good personal finance management app is a gamified money app that leverages rewards, achievements, daily streaks, point/coin collection, progress bar, and other user engagement techniques. They will keep users’ interest on a high level, encourage cost saving, and make the app enjoyable to interact with. AI-powered assistance Today, artificial intelligence is rapidly turning from a new-fangled whim into a widespread technology employed in many banking operations . Naturally, personal finance app users expect their solution to rely on AI-driven assistance in many matters, such as categorizing expense areas, delivering actionable insights related to spending habits, issuing advice on optimizing expenditures, and more. Round-the-clock customer support In a field beyond our professional area of expertise, we often need help or consultation. A personal finance app should enable this option, where users can voice their complaints or ask for aid 24/7 and receive the assistance they require. You can live up to all these customers’ expectations by choosing finance app features correctly. Want to build a custom personal finance app? Check out our payment software & gateway development offering. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Zooming in on must-have features of a personal finance app The list of features of a personal finance management app is conditioned by its type and the app owner’s requirements for their product. However, there are some non-negotiable functionalities a first-rate app in this niche should possess. finance app features Pinch and spread for zoom Registration This is a departure point in the operation of any fintech app. During this phase, users enter information about themselves (name, birth date, email and physical address, phone number, social media profiles, etc.). It is advisable to split the registration form into several steps, with two or a maximum of three questions asked at each step. Authentication and onboarding It should be as secure as possible. Best practices for this routine include biometric mechanisms (face ID, touch ID, or voice recognition) and the generation of a unique access code. User profile The principal requirement for this capability is its utmost customization potential. People should be able to fill it with the personal information details of their own choice. The more facts about users are entered, the greater the ability of the app’s AI mechanisms to provide relevant options and personalized recommendations. In-app search It helps users navigate the app easily and get instant access to any information related to their accounts and finance flows. Account synchronization This feature turns the personal finance app into a one-stop shop where all credit and debit cards, loans, mutual funds, and other accounts are united. Users can manage all assets from one virtual venue. Spending tracker Users must be able to monitor their expenditures in real-time as well as receive statistics on their spending during some period (a week, a month, a quarter). To let them understand the nature of their expenses, this feature should be reinforced with a categorization capability that segments transactions into classes (groceries, auto and transport, healthcare, childcare, utilities and bills, entertainment, etc.). Investment tracking This capability does essentially the same thing but for investments. The latter can also be broken into categories, allowing the user to monitor asset allocations and changes in the stock market. Payment gateways The integration of these tools will enable people to make payments directly from the app and give the solution automatic access to any financial information from third-party systems of banks and other financial institutions. Analytics and reports All the relevant data are pooled into well-organized reports that can be scheduled for delivery at different frequencies (daily, weekly, monthly, or annually). The collections of such insights will help users analyze their income sources, spending habits, areas of expenditure, and other data. Moreover, the forecasts the app makes are a good crutch for people when planning their financial flows. Customer support The app should be geared to lend a helping hand via a live chat, support personnel, or a callback option when the user has some difficulty or questions. Customer support efficiency can be increased manifold if it is delegated to an AI-powered chatbot servicing people in multiple languages. Notifications and alerts These should be nonintrusive but timely. Such messages keep the user informed about a low balance on their account, upcoming bills, overspending, approaching credit limits, suspicious transactions, and the like. Notifications can also be employed to update the person on promising investment opportunities, special offers, and other opportunities for saving or earning money. Armed with the knowledge about the features your future app will contain, you can proceed to its development. Estimate project costs Please share more details of your project with our team. Get a quote Kateryna Monastyrska Head of Sales and Marketing How to build a personal finance app: A roadmap to follow As a seasoned IT company with vast experience in fintech app development , DICEUS has its tried strategy for creating such products. Stage 1. Ideation At the first meeting with the customer’s representatives, our experts listen to them carefully to understand the mission of the app-to-be, its functionality list, and the design peculiarities envisaged by them. We also discover the customer’s profile details to be aware of the company’s business goals and policies. Stage 2. Market research Having all project requirements at our fingertips, we plunge into a thorough study of the current state of the industry as a whole and the niche in particular to reveal principal trends. Also, we analyze the competitive products to pinpoint their fortes and – especially – downsides. Finally, we identify the customer persona for the future app with their pain points, user habits, expectations, and needs. Stage 3. Determining the monetization strategy The app must not only cover the development costs but also bring stable revenue. Theoretically, you can make your solution a paid one, but since many similar products are free to download, you will give your competitors a head start by doing this. Hence, it is wiser to leverage other app monetization options like a freemium model, in-app ads, subscriptions, referral fees, selling aggregated financial data, or providing various paid services (like credit monitoring, for instance). Our vetted consultants will help you choose the most suitable model for your use case or recommend a healthy combination of several monetization strategies. Stage 4. Providing compliance In line with the security-first approach we follow during the fintech app SDLC, we ensure the solution’s compliance with the major standards and regulations adopted in the industry (PCI DSS, GDPR, FINRA, SEC, and others). They guarantee that the app will be penetration-proof and have robust data protection mechanisms in place. Stage 5. Tech stack selection Realizing what they are going to build, our specialists identify the technology roster necessary for it. Its choice is largely conditioned by the app’s operating system (iOS, Android, or cross-platform). Each of them requires a different set of tools, programming languages, and frameworks to be employed. Also, developers determine what cutting-edge know-how (AI, ML, IoT, etc.) the app will contain Stage 6. Assembling the team In accordance with the expertise the usage of the tech stack involves, we appoint team members for the project. The conventional composition of the crew includes a project manager, a back-end and a front-end developer, a UI/UX specialist, and a QA engineer. For larger projects, any of these positions can be reinforced. Stage 7. Building a prototype and MVP A clickable prototype is the first material deliverable of the project, representing the solution’s design, logic, and structure. Once it is approved, the prototype is upgraded to become a minimum viable product, with its further submission for trial exploitation. Stage 8. Designing the app The trial usage yields insights into the app’s functioning, which are considered guidelines for building the client side of the product. During the trial, designers create the solution’s UI with its color scheme, layout, buttons, etc., and ensure seamless UX through meticulous development of the app and user flows and devising customer journey maps. Stage 9. Back-end development The server side of the app takes the longest to create. First, the coding should be performed. Then, back-end elements should be aligned with UI components. After that, a system of APIs is developed to let the app play well with third-party software. Finally, the interaction of all modules is thoroughly tested. Stage 10. Quality assurance and deployment It is the responsibility of the QA personnel. They conduct an entire complex of checks, comprising performance, usability, penetration, compatibility, functional, stress, and other kinds of tests. When they report no bugs or other issues, the app goes live. Stage 11. Support and maintenance Only responsible vendors come this far, and DICEUS is one of them. We stay with the customers as long as they need to ensure the smooth performance of the newly-created product, deal with problems in case they crop up, and offer advice concerning the nitty-gritty of the app’s operation. Given the multitude of aspects one must take into account while creating a personal finance application, it is evident that this ordeal should be entrusted to experts in the realm. DICEUS developers have in-depth theoretical knowledge of the niche and top-notch technical hands-on skills to deliver a personal finance app of any type and scope. Contact us to obtain a high-end solution that will impress users with its efficient functioning and elegant design, bringing a stream of revenues into your coffers. Final thoughts A personal finance app is a fintech product that allows users to monitor their expenditures, manage finances, explore spending habits, plan their budget, and save money. To bring maximum value to financial service consumers, such apps should have a user-friendly interface, present data in an understandable visual format, be super secure, flexible, and customizable, integrate with payment systems and banks, and offer 24/7 customer support. Creating personal finance management apps is a no-joke endeavor that should be delegated to seasoned professionals in the field who will fill it with proper functionalities, choose the optimal monetization strategy, and follow an efficient SDLC roadmap. FAQ How do I create a personal finance tracker app? Its creation follows the typical SDLC roadmap for any fintech app that includes ideation, market research, selecting monetization method, determining the tech stack, identifying the development team, building a prototype, and then an MVP, creating the client-side and the server side of the solution, testing it, and deploying the finished product. What differs the creation of a finance tracker app is the choice of relevant features that will allow app users to monitor their earnings and spending, analyze the expenditure categories, plan their budget in advance, and avoid running into debt. How do personal finance apps make money? You can charge your audience for installing the app, but this is not a very good idea since most products of this kind are free to download from app stores. A wiser strategy is to leverage a balanced combo of different monetization methods, including in-app ads, subscriptions, selling financial data, a freemium model, or providing various paid services. How to build a personal finance app like Mint? A typical SDLC for building personal finance apps contains such steps as the discovery phase, selecting the monetization strategy, guaranteeing compliance, selecting the tech stack, determining the composition of the development team, building an MVP, creating UI/UX design, coding, testing, and deployment. High-profile vendors extend post-launch support and maintenance of the products they build. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Making the case for a personal finance management app Types of personal finance apps scrutinized What do users expect from personal finance apps? Zooming in on must-have features of a personal finance app How to build a personal finance app: A roadmap to follow Final thoughts FAQ Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles Fintech 16 min. read · 02 Oct 2025 24 Sep 2026 How to create an investment app in 2026: Step-by-step guide 17 min. read · 15 Jul 2024 09 Apr 2025 Cloud-based application development: Step-by-step guide Healthcare 18 min. read · 15 Jul 2024 01 Sep 2026 EHR software development: Full guide for 2025 AI 12 min. read · 21 Oct 2024 24 Sep 2026 AI for workflow automation: Full guide for 2025 Insurance 11 min. read · 22 Apr 2024 24 Sep 2026 Life insurance software product development process: Full guide 17 min. read · 04 Mar 2025 11 Mar 2025 ERP finance module: Common features and use cases All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman