Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · Insurance · 11 min. read · 10470 reads · 30 Jan 2026 04 Sep 2026 Choosing insurance business intelligence software: A complete guide for insurers In our information-driven age, companies accumulate and operate vast volumes of customer and business data in their operations. However, its sheer amount can’t benefit organizations until they learn to derive actionable insights from the company’s data. That is where business intelligence tools come in handy. They streamline and facilitate the routine of data collection, cleansing, analysis, and visualization, and enable users to leverage their predictive capabilities to forecast industry trends. Realizing the immense value of state-of-the-art business intelligence platforms for their workflows, business leaders invest heavily in software, with an expected market size of around $40B in 2029 and a solid CAGR of over 5%, according to Statista. The insurance sector is moving in step with this across-the-board drive, embracing insurance business intelligence solutions among other specialized products on an ever-growing scale. This article covers the role and key assets of business intelligence for insurance, highlighting the use of insurance business intelligence software and outlining the prospects for BI tools in the domain. Explore our ready-made software products for insurance Business intelligence in insurance: How it works To perform their business functions effectively and outpace rivals, insurance companies need to know their customers inside and out and make informed decisions about where, when, whom, and what insurance products to sell. For decades, such market and customer data analysis relied on mathematical and statistical models, demographic patterns, environmental data studies, and other time- and effort-consuming methods, often yielding questionable results. By integrating business intelligence software into its digital ecosystem, an insurance company can perform data analytics more quickly and efficiently. The power of BI solutions lies in the four-element data management pipeline they use. data management pipeline Pinch and spread for zoom Data mining. Relevant customer and market data is retrieved from all available internal and external sources (CRM, ERP, social media, weather reports, medical records, police protocols, etc.) and stored within a centralized database. Data curation. The information is cleaned and structured to ensure data consistency, accuracy, conformity, understandability, completeness, and timeliness. Analyzing data. Specialized mechanisms sift through the cleansed data to detect trends and regularities, or, vice versa, anomalies. Data visualization. The results are presented in easy-to-read reports, tables, interactive dashboards, graphs, and other visualizations to uncover actionable insights and enable more strategic business decisions. How does it work in the context of insurance? For instance, an insurance company wants to find out why claims processing is so sluggish. The person responsible for business performance uses claims business intelligence software to analyze claims management records and the company’s personnel key performance indicators. The advanced analytics the system yields reveals which aspect of the claims handling workflow (inefficient processing, waiting for documents, staff errors, etc.) is causing delays, enabling insurance executives to take corrective steps and fine-tune key business processes. What perks does BI software bring to insurance businesses? Benefits of insurance business intelligence solutions Our team distinguishes the following advantages of BI tools for insurance companies: BI benefits for insurance Pinch and spread for zoom Data consolidation When all available business information is pooled into a centralized repository and structured in accordance with best data governance practices, insurance organizations obtain a single source of truth accessible to employees across departments, which promotes the free exchange of information, prevents data silos, and ensures enterprise-wide collaboration. Operational efficiency With complete database visibility, all workforce members are on the same page, enabling the company’s pipeline processes to run faster. Moreover, BI solutions can include performance measurement capabilities, allowing managers to track employee productivity, identify lagging departments, and take remedial measures. Improved decision-making Advanced analytics provided by business intelligence software yields valuable insights across multiple processes, giving decision-makers a solid foundation for taking specific tactical steps or conducting strategic planning. Enhanced customer experience BI solutions help insurers obtain a 360-degree view of each client and perform granular customer segmentation based on demographics, location, preferences, income levels, etc. With such data at their fingertips, sales departments can personalize offers and services, launch targeted marketing campaigns, and unlock the hidden potential of cross-selling and upselling initiatives. As a result, agencies maintain high customer retention and attract new customers, increasing brand recognition and loyalty. Sharper competitive edge Insurance companies can not only monitor their own KPIs but also gain a glimpse of third-party data on rivals’ specific operations in the niche. By comparing them with internal performance indices, they can understand their current position, pinpoint problem areas, and plan for their improvement (for instance, adopt advanced technologies, integrate a new software product, fine-tune pricing policy, switch to new marketing channels, target emerging demographic segments, etc.). Profitability source awareness The specialized features of a well-crafted BI solution provide complete transparency into sales channels, enabling an insurance company to create an omnichannel customer experience. The revealed profit indices allow marketing experts to identify the channels that generate the most income and to allocate more investment to their development. Moreover, they may decide to abandon the least effective sales instruments or, conversely, double their efforts to improve performance. Given such weighty perks, it is no wonder that business intelligence solutions find multiple use cases in the insurance industry. Related article: Data warehousing and business intelligence: Full guide Applications of business intelligence in insurance There are four major areas of the insurance pipeline where BI tools excel. BI use cases in insurance Pinch and spread for zoom Claims management This is the fundamental workflow that, to a large degree, conditions the success of business outcomes in the sector. To meet customer expectations, insurance businesses must provide prompt, efficient, and fair claim handling following policy terms. Thanks to business intelligence solutions, adjusters and claims processors can access claims data in the client’s profile, check its validity, approve settlement, and calculate disbursement sum in a New York minute, enhancing customer satisfaction and thus fostering increased customer loyalty. Underwriting and quoting Here, it is all about risk management. Before offering people a policy and determining the price of the premium, employees should conduct an out-and-out risk assessment, taking into account claims history, previous coverage, customer behavior, creditworthiness, property details, healthcare records, and other factors. BI tools allow agents to do it quickly and error-free, leveraging business analytics to generate appropriate quotes. Fraud detection and prevention The insurance market suffers from fraudulent claims that cost the sector more than $40 billion annually in the USA alone. Unscrupulous clients forge information on applications, inflate actual claims, report fake injuries and damages, or even stage accidents to get money from insurers. Business intelligence software can minimize insurance fraud by tracking claims data, identifying suspicious deviations, and alerting personnel who should look into numbers and subject the claim to a thorough investigation. Customer relationship management Improving customer satisfaction is one of the principal business objectives in the insurance sector as well as in any other vertical. It can be achieved by conducting a meticulous BI analysis of feedback data from customer support teams, call centers, and consumer reviews. By regularly discovering customer queries, pain points, and preferences, insurance companies can address issues before they escalate and provide a top-notch customer experience. To get maximum value from business intelligence, insurers should monitor market trends and keep abreast of the fresh approaches. Current trends in BI solutions for insurance Three cutting-edge technologies will shape the field’s contours in the foreseeable future, helping forward-looking insurance organizations stay ahead of the curve. trends of BI insurance Pinch and spread for zoom Artificial intelligence and machine learning AI-powered technologies (ML, large language models, natural language processing, deep learning, and more) are revolutionizing the domain of data analytics . They can be utilized to bolster BI tools and allow insurers to exercise more knowledgeable risk prediction, improve predictive analytics , create customer personas more accurately, and automate simple and repetitive operations related to data processing. Internet of Things Wearable devices and various sensors geared for collecting and transmitting real-time data serve as an additional source of vital information concerning a person’s health parameters, property state, vehicle conditions, etc. When accumulated and analyzed with the help of BI mechanisms, this data enhances insurers’ risk assessment efforts and allows them to determine premium pricing fairly. Blockchain Together with improving multiple business intelligence tasks, IoT devices pose new security threats, becoming access channels cyber criminals can exploit to penetrate the company’s digital infrastructure and get hold of sensitive data circulating there. The distributed ledger system the blockchain technology relies on can mitigate such hazards and add an extra level of security to data repositories, ensuring the inviolability of dossiers stored there and leveraged in business intelligence initiatives. To make the most of BI tools, you should not only pay attention to the latest trends in the niche but also partner with a seasoned IT vendor, well-versed in business intelligence software implementation and development. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us Augment your business intelligence with DICEUS We offer insurance business intelligence software as part of our ready-made software products suite that includes the following: Policy Administration System Group and Individual Insurance Management Platform AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Customer-Facing Super App Customer Web Portal Broker Portal Data Analytics and Data Warehouse LLM Chatbot Although data warehouses and data analytics aren’t identical to BI solutions, they are often discussed alongside business intelligence. A DWH primarily serves as a data foundation, being a centralized repository that consolidates data from multiple sources, making it reliable for business intelligence reporting. Data analytics, in turn, examines data to detect patterns, finds answers to business questions, and generates insights. Together, these two solutions provide the basis that BI tools use to deliver reliable decision support, dashboards, and reports. DICEUS Data Warehouse for Insurance The DICEUS Data Warehouse is designed to grow alongside your business, adapting as your needs change. From the start, it’s built on agile, modular, and scalable architectural principles, making it easy to add new data sources, expand models and tables, and evolve data marts. The system also enhances automation, monitoring, and support, so you always have reliable data capabilities — even as your data grows. With continuous implementation and maintenance, you get a flexible solution that keeps up with your business. bi diagram for insurance Pinch and spread for zoom Our DWH is designed as a coherent engineering platform with aligned tools, structure, and operations. Learn more about Insurance Data Warehouse developed by DICEUS Key advantages of our DWH for insurance businesses Our solution was built with the insurance sector specifics in mind. Since 2011, our team has developed many software solutions for insurers such as VIG, UNIQA, Fairfax Group, and brokers like WTW. As a result, we know how these companies operate, what challenges they face, and how reliable data is important for them. Below are the key benefits our solution provides: Improved decision-making. Our DWH brings all your business data together into one reliable source of truth. So, business leaders can quickly analyze trends, monitor KPIs, and make smarter decisions. Better operational efficiency. DICEUS DWH automates data processes, removes manual work and scattered spreadsheets, giving teams instant access to reliable data for faster decisions and fewer errors. Understanding customers. With all customer data in one place, insurers better understand customer needs and risks. This means more accurate targeting, tailored products, and improved customer loyalty. Scalable architecture. Our DWH adapts to your unique data environment and business goals. It grows as new data sources, technologies, or analytics needs arise, offering long-term flexibility. This scalability means your data infrastructure supports key initiatives like digital transformation and AI adoption. DICEUS Data Analytics DICEUS Data Analytics solution for insurance businesses captures and analyzes data from various sources. Its intuitive, interactive dashboards allow users to track metrics for key aspects of the insurance company’s operations. Insurance data analytcis Pinch and spread for zoom For example, the sales dashboard can showcase the efficiency of all sales channels the company leverages by showing the number of policies purchased through each channel, the dynamic volume of written premiums, and the number of quotes that were not converted into policies for a specific period. Armed with these figures, you can determine the most successful channel, take remedial measures for underperforming channels, and understand where your marketing efforts should be directed. On the dashboard related to claims, you can see their total number, segmented by type and completeness. This information will help you track patterns in claims data and allocate additional resources to handle pending claims if their number is substantial. Claims data analytics Pinch and spread for zoom The customer profile and marketing dashboard enable personnel to dig deep into customer profiles and explore customer behavior (clicks, engagements, views, conversions, and purchases) across each interaction channel. Such analytics are instrumental in assessing the efficiency of marketing campaigns and tapping new cross-selling and upselling opportunities. If the functionality of our data analytics solution doesn’t meet your business and technical requirements, our high-profile developers have in-depth niche expertise. They can craft a unique BI solution from scratch. Drop us a line to reinvent your data analytics with the best-in-class business intelligence software for the insurance industry. Key takeaways Business intelligence is a software-driven effort consisting in collecting, cleansing, analyzing, and presenting business data. In the insurance context, it is geared to essentially facilitate and streamline basic industry workflows, such as claims management, underwriting, fraud prevention, and customer relationship management. When implemented by an experienced vendor and bolstered by disruptive technologies, BI tools can help centralize relevant data under one virtual roof, increase operational efficiency, boost decision-making, augment customer experience, sharpen the competitive edge, and assess the profitability of existing sales channels, thus revolutionizing the entire performance of the insurance organization. Frequently asked questions How can business intelligence improve decision-making in insurance companies? Thanks to a centralized data repository, key decision-makers have permanent access to a complete collection of accurate, relevant, consistent, and well-structured data, which they use as actionable insights in devising operational and strategic steps for their company. What are the key benefits of implementing business intelligence in insurance? By onboarding a robust business intelligence solution, insurance companies obtain a single source of truth containing business and customer data, enhance their operational efficiency, boost decision-making, hone their competitive edge, measure the profitability of various sales channels, and provide the ultimate customer experience for the clientele. How does business intelligence help in fraud detection and prevention in insurance? Business intelligence tools are used to automatically track claims data, pinpoint suspicious activities, trends, and anomalies, and red flag such instances. After being alerted to take action, insurance company personnel investigate these facts and decide whether the claim is legitimate and whether the disbursement is to be paid. What challenges do insurance companies face when implementing BI solutions? Insurance agencies poised for onboarding business intelligence tools should learn to address such bottlenecks and pitfalls as data privacy and security, regulatory compliance, integration of cutting-edge technologies with legacy infrastructure, training personnel to employ BI products, high initial investment, and evolving customer expectations, to name a few. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Business intelligence in insurance: How it works Benefits of insurance business intelligence solutions Applications of business intelligence in insurance Current trends in BI solutions for insurance Augment your business intelligence with DICEUS DICEUS Data Warehouse for Insurance DICEUS Data Analytics Key takeaways Frequently asked questions Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles Fintech 19 min. read · 26 Mar 2024 28 Jul 2025 How to start a neobank: A complete guide Insurance 5 min. read · 28 Jan 2026 28 Jan 2026 Insurance software modernization: Why legacy policy administration systems are holding insurers back 10 min. read · 15 Aug 2025 15 Aug 2025 Data warehousing and business intelligence: Full guide AI 13 min. read · 12 May 2025 12 May 2025 Types of AI models with examples: Complete overview for 2025 Insurance 10 min. read · 29 Feb 2024 16 Apr 2025 How to build custom medical insurance billing software: An ultimate guide Insurance 12 min. read · 25 Feb 2026 25 Feb 2026 How to create cloud-based insurance software: A concise guide All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman