Insurance web portal development and ready-made portals DICEUS is an insurance portal development company that offers a ready-made customer-facing web portal for insurance businesses. Our portal empowers policyholders with full control over their insurance journey. It provides personalized, user-friendly dashboards, real-time policy and claim management, instant quotes, and secure payments. Book a demo Along with our portal, we also provide custom development services according to top-quality software standards and principles. Our solutions are built based on in‑depth UX/CX research, according to customer business needs, and with a focus on omnichannel customer experience. Below is a detailed overview of our insurance portal, explicitly developed for insurance companies and their customers. It has a set of pre-built functionalities designed based on insurance-specific workflows and is easy to integrate with other software like core systems, DWH, CRM, and other companies' and third-party data sources. Key modules of our insurance customer portal Personalized insurance hub with a user‑friendly dashboard Our Customer Web Portal gives policyholders a comprehensive overview of their insurance policies. Everything users need is at their fingertips: from active policies and claims to personalized offers and quick actions. The dashboard ensures continuous engagement of customers with your company. For example, the portal's Smart Assistant suggests that a customer should complete his profile by adding an emergency contact number or notifies that his policy expires soon, and it is high time to renew it. Key functionalities Overview of active policies and ongoing claims Reminders for upcoming policy expiration dates Direct options to renew policies Prompts to enhance profile information for better service New quote or claim initiation Support request submission Quick access to profile Gamified "Achievements" and "Protection Score" with indication of coverage completeness and suggestions to boost score and enhance security Seamless self-service to manage insurance details Our web portal provides a secure and centralized hub to manage policyholders' personal, contact, and payment information, ensuring their data is always up to date. Here, customers can also find the contact information of their brokers with a possibility of instant contact (multiple options: call, email), which is quite convenient. Customers can securely see and manage (edit, delete, make default) their payment information. Key functionalities Personal information management that includes reviewing and updating names, date of birth, address, email address, and phone numbers Broker connection with contact details and "Contact now" option Notifications about important updates and support information from the broker Secure payment digital wallet Instant quotes and effortless tracking Whether users are looking for new coverage or checking the status of existing requests, our intuitive hub helps them find the right protection quickly. Depending on your business lines and types of insurance your company provides, this dashboard is configured to your requirements and workflows. For your customers, buying insurance is super easy, as our flows of quote generation are designed to make this journey clear and transparent. Once a customer is done with choosing the required type of insurance and payment, they can download a PDF of the quote, policy, and its terms. Key functionalities Quick quote generation for various insurance types Viewing all past and pending quotes in one organized table Real‑time quote status tracking Easy access to details for each quote Quick search for specific quotes using the integrated search bar Effortless policy management Our customer web portal provides a dedicated, intuitive space to manage all insurance coverage. Policyholders gain complete clarity over their entire portfolio, track important dates, and ensure their protection is always up to date. Key functionalities Policy overview 01 Expiring soon alerts 02 Auto-renew control 03 Search, filter, and sorting options 04 Detailed policy listing, with each policy entry providing essential details including policy name, insurer, emergency contact numbers, number of claims, coverage period, and current status 05 Streamlined claims management Policyholders have complete transparency and control in the claims management hub, from initial submission to resolution. They have access to the complete history of claims submitted, in review, and resolved. Documentation sent as proof of claim is also stored in this place and can be reviewed anytime. Key functionalities Claims overview, including total claims submitted, claims that are currently under review, and a resolved claims summary Detailed claims listing, with each claim entry providing data on the associated policy, issue date, estimated assessment/investigation status, and current claim status Real‑time updates with clear status indicators Document submission confirmation Easy claim submission and navigation Transparent transactions The "Transactions" section provides a clear overview of all insurance related payments. Here, users can manage their financial obligations effortlessly, from upcoming premiums to complete payment history. Insurers, in turn, have no need to remind policyholders about the upcoming premiums or do so not so often. Key functionalities Upcoming payments showing what's due soon, the total amount, which helps policyholders stay prepared Real time summary of all amounts still owed across active policies, providing a complete financial picture Indicator of any overdue payments, empowering users to address them promptly and avoid service disruptions Tracking total annual insurance spend Detailed transaction history Discover more unique features for your customers Book a demo Why choose Customer Web Portal developed by DICEUS? 01 Full‑fledged software product Our portal has all the necessary functionalities and features for policyholders to get a personalized digital user experience and control over their insurance policies and claims. By offering customers our portal, insurance businesses can reduce the workload on their call centers, decrease operational costs, and improve customer loyalty. 02 Developed for insurance Unlike many ready‑made customer portals built for general purposes and applicable to any industry, our software product is developed specifically for the insurance sector. Based on DICEUS's extensive experience building unique software solutions for insurance, we synthesized our knowledge and understanding of the industry to create a solution that fully meets insurers' needs. 03 Proven track record Our insurance portal development company is trusted by leading insurance companies and brokers like UNIQA, Vienna Insurance Group, Fairfax Group, WTW, and others. By cooperating with top insurance businesses for more than 15 years, we understand how they work and which challenges they face. With this in mind, we developed our suite of ready‑made software solutions exclusively for insurance. Find the right solution for your needs Talk to our expert Diana Mircheva Product Owner at DICEUS Benefits of our Customer Web Portal For insurance companies Decreased operational costs Reduced call center and back-office workload Automated processes for quotes, renewals, claims, and policies Upselling and cross‑selling possibilities Increased customer retention and loyalty Branchless and paper‑free business Stronger brand differentiation For customers of insurance companies 24/7 access to policies, claims, and payments Fast online policy purchases Quick claim submission and faster claim processing Personalized offers and recommendations Access to self‑service, like appointment scheduling Gamified protection scores with tips to improve protection Our approach to insurance portal software development Since 2011, our experts have been developing custom software for top insurers and brokers, including companies such as UNIQA, Vienna Insurance Group, Fairfax Group, and WTW. Our hands‑on experience has sharpened our insight into the insurance sector's unique challenges, enabling us to design solutions that address them effectively. By regularly engaging with the insurtech community at industry events, we stay ahead of emerging trends and continuously enhance our products to match your evolving needs. CX research Insurance portal development requires a comprehensive approach to every stage of the development lifecycle. Therefore, we at DICEUS understand that customer experience matters a lot. Insurance processes may seem complex for users, leading to low customer engagement and increased workload for insurers' call centers and agents. Our CX/UX team conducts research to identify pain points in the current customer digital journeys, create customer journey maps, and create CX‑driven features. Industry-specific workflows Our insurance agency portal development team creates digital processes tailored to the way insurance companies operate. These digital processes help policyholders and insurers complete their tasks faster: file and manage claims, purchase and sell policies, process payments, etc. Along with traditional workflows, we discover if the client has some specific processes during the CX phase. Integration and customization Whether you implement our ready‑made portal or order insurance web portal development services, we ensure that it is built for seamless integration with other platforms you might use: core systems, CRM, DWH, ERP, and others. Our experts can connect your systems with the portal by API‑first architecture, middleware options, and data models. As for customization, the portal can be customized according to your company's branding, workflows, product catalog, content, Tone of Voice, and other parameters upon request. Omnichannel CX An insurance web portal can become a central hub for omnichannel customer experience, connecting smoothly with other channels like a customer‑facing mobile app, chatbot, and other digital touchpoints. This approach to customer experience ensures a consistent experience, higher engagement, and faster resolution of customer requests. For example, a customer wants to generate a quote in a mobile app, gets a link to a web portal, finalizes the purchase there, and receives the documents instantly. Afterward, when it is needed to file a claim, the customers can start a chat with a dedicated chatbot. What our customers say about us Elena Markova Board Member UNIQA We were impressed by the depth of the UX analysis they did in terms of our customer's research, buyer persona creation, user journey mapping, etc. All the information like research findings, for instance, was presented in a clear form (presentations, Miro boards, clear infographics) so it was quite easy to understand what we need to build and why. View case Ihor Zhyzhara Deputy Chairman of Board, Kniazha VIG DICEUS developed a chatbot for our insurance company's medical and technical assistance departments. Now, we can support our clients online 24/7 through popular messaging platforms. The key functionalities include doctor's appointment scheduling, sending doctor's reports, submitting claims, and buying insurance. I liked the quality of services and especially the communication with the team. View case FAQ How does the Customer Web Portal reduce operational costs for insurance companies? To process new queries and claims, insurance companies involve many different resources, leading to high operational costs. Digital channels like our web portal can help insurers reduce operational costs significantly by offering new means of interaction with customers. By engaging policyholders to interact with your company online, you can reduce the number of resources needed to process calls, enquiries, quotes, and claims. Users of the Customer Web Portal get access to many self-service features. For example, they can schedule a call with a doctor while filing health claims or purchase travel insurance while driving to the airport. There is no need to call an agent and ask for assistance. What makes this portal different from other off‑the‑shelf customer portals? Other off‑the‑shelf solutions are targeted at any industry. They include basic functionality needed for providing customers with digital access to services. Our web portal is built specifically for the insurance industry sector, with a deep understanding of its key needs and challenges. It includes not only basic features needed to ensure customer interaction with your company, but also unique functionalities, making your insurance business different from competitors. Can the Customer Web Portal be integrated with our existing core systems (e.g., policy admin, CRM, claims management)? Yes, the portal can be integrated with other systems your organization uses to make all systems and tools work in sync with each other. Is the solution customizable to our branding, processes, and regulatory needs? The solution can be customized to suit your needs, branding, workflows, and regulatory needs. All these requirements are discussed before the solution is implemented to create a consistent customization process. Does the portal support multi‑line, multi‑product insurance portfolios? Yes, our portal can support different lines of business as well as multiple products within insurance portfolios. Is DICEUS Insurance Customer Portal safe to use for sensitive data? First and foremost, safety. The portal is secured by strong encryption, multi-factor authentication, and is compliant with GDPR and HIPAA requirements. The personal and payment data of your customers is protected from login to payment. Does the portal support real‑time document updates? Yes. Policyholders can upload evidence for claims, check the status of processing, and download updated policies or quotes as PDFs all in real-time. Data syncs instantly, so your back office spends less time on manual updates. Other ready-made software products Data Warehouse for Insurance Alternative Risk Platform Captive Owner Portal Group Insurance Management Platform Risk Retention Group Management Platform Policy Administration System Platform for captives and captive managers Insurance General Ledger Platform Group Insurance Management Platform for Life & Pensions AI-Powered Chatbot Super App AI-Powered Underwriting Platform for Life Insurance Reinsurance Platform​ Broker Portal Underwriting Workbench for Health Insurance AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Group Health Insurance Management Platform Captive Management Platform All solutions Request a demo 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman