Illia Pinchuk Founder and CEO Share Do you like this article? Yes No Business · AI · 16 min. read · 1278 reads · 15 Aug 2025 04 Sep 2026 AI agents: Key types, benefits, and use cases Artificial intelligence enables deep industry transformation by streamlining workflows with automated solutions, offering personalized customer support, state-of-the-art assistance, and other improvements within various areas. According to recent trends, implementing advanced AI agents can boost productivity by up to 20-30%, replacing manual routine processes with automated ones. Our comprehensive guide can help you become more familiar with AI agents and their impact on industries through intelligent automation and other features. Understanding AI agents What is an AI agent, and what role does it have in modern industries? AI-powered agents are autonomous software programs and systems designed specifically for certain tasks or decision-making procedures. Machine learning, natural language processing, and computer vision are the technological foundations for their functionality. They can operate independently of human operators, adapt well to changing conditions, and interact with users, staff, or other systems. Read how AI agents are used in insurance Types of AI agents Intelligent agents can be used for various purposes, from casual automation tasks to complex multi-purpose assistance, so let’s review the main types of agents based on their goals. AI agents types Pinch and spread for zoom Simple reflex agents You can consider them essential AI agents, as their purpose is to react to factors from the environment without the need to learn or save anything in memory. They act according to predefined rules with direct logic that explain how to behave in specific limited situations to the agent. Simple reflex agents can operate industrial safety sensors and automated sprinkler systems, automatically respond to emails, and process essential tasks that do not require complex decision-making. Model-based reflex agents This agent is provided with a world model that guides them during decision-making regarding the current state. They analyze the present environment using the offered world model and sensor readings. It helps agents to understand how the environment changes without the agent’s influence and how an agent can affect it so that they can take required actions. They are good for QA systems, network monitoring, and for smart house security systems. Goal-based agents The development of goal-based agents is focused on performing specific tasks. They plan their reactions using search and analytics algorithms to reach desired purposes. Agents are provided with a description of their goal, designing algorithms to see what could lead to it, state evaluation mechanisms, and the world model to understand the effect of actions. You can find goal-based agents in task-scheduling systems, industrial robots, automated warehouse systems, and smart heating solutions. Self-learning agents These are powered by an AI system that can learn and improve its behavior while interacting with the environment. Considering external feedback and analyzing the results of their activity, self-learning agents can provide performance optimization. These agents are perfect for situations when you can’t predict the exact behavior and need the machine to adapt, like during industrial process control or energy system management. They also include chatbots and QA systems. Utility-based agents The evaluation of potential outcomes and the maximization of results’ overall utility serve as a basis for utility-based agents’ performance. Their purpose is to reach aimed states. Their ability to analyze present and potential states helps them to adapt in a desired direction by choosing the actions that could lead to the best possible results. Utility-based agents work best for resource allocation systems, scheduling tasks, and smart house management. Hierarchical agents This type of agent has a structured hierarchy, where high-level agents can guide the agents of lower levels, considering the integrated coordination mechanisms. Hierarchical agents break big tasks into smaller ones for further control, decision-making, and fulfillment. Speaking about hierarchical agents, you can think about big manufacturing control systems, various solutions for building automation, and robotic task fulfillment. Multi-agent systems Such a system can include several autonomous agents that share one environment and can work independently or together to reach specific goals. Each agent may have its purpose, or they all can work for a collective goal. Depending on the type of system, agents can share the data or compete for resources according to the provided rules. Multi-agent systems are often utilized in warehouse management processes, basic manufacturing, and resource management. Enhancing efficiency with smart AI agents The main goal of AI agents is to enhance the overall efficiency of the present staff, so let’s take a closer look at how this can be achieved with the help of artificial intelligence. Task automation . AI agents can take care of routine, time-consuming tasks like repetitive user inquiries in customer support services. They can handle various types of processing, task tracking, error reductions, and other responsibilities to speed up the workflow. Prompt decision making . Agents can analyze data and provide real-time insights, boosting the decision-making process and speeding it up. For instance, they can detect potential fraud actions in the finance sector and flag them instantly or analyze patient data within the healthcare industry. AI-powered personalization . AI’s analytics capabilities allow agents to tailor services according to individual needs. For example, agents can autonomously recommend content or products based on the history of reviews, browsing behavior, and previous purchases. Predictive maintenance . Using the information from sensors, AI agents can monitor equipment, analyzing and predicting how it works and when maintenance is required. For example, in the airline sphere, AI agents can monitor aircraft systems and schedule repairs. Workflow optimization . AI agents can optimize the resources by identifying the weak points and suggesting improvements. For example, they can suggest better-optimized delivery routes for logistics or divide tasks among team members according to workload and skills. Explore how AI agents can improve customer service From LLMs to intelligent agents Originally, LLMs (large language models) were passive systems that provided simple language modeling statistics. GPT-2 impressed users and developers with its promising capability to generate text and summarize information. However, it still didn’t show any specific objective, identity signs, or ability to make decisions. Later, the developers were able to achieve more human-like reactions to the requests. Working on the model, they could adjust reaction tone, provide specific knowledge bases, and let LLMs deliver their own opinions. They still could not fulfill complex tasks, but they made the first steps in planning operations and “self-reflection” and could show basic reasoning signs. Afterward, development added autonomous functionality to their capabilities. From now the LLMs could simulate human interactions in conversations and fulfill set tasks like marketing calendar creation, content generation, and publishing. The agents were divided into conversational, which use their capabilities to simulate and mimic human conversation, and goal-oriented, which serve to assist in workflow operation. Extra external memory, knowledge bases, and various tools allowed agents to widen functionality and get closer to artificial intelligence systems. AI agents demonstrated their potential to solve problems and tasks collaboratively. Today’s AI agents can easily operate autonomously or semi-autonomously. They have access to a wide variety of tools, from simple calculators to advanced search solutions for data collection and logical action selection. Their generative capabilities allow them to create texts according to provided requests, such as correspondence, report generation, and various marketing materials. Core features of LLM-based agents If we are talking about the most important features of LLM-based models, we would consider the following as the core: Natural language understanding Natural language generation Reasoning and problem-solving capabilities Data retrieval and summarization Decision-making capabilities Integration with tools and plug-in ecosystems Personalization Ethical and secure interactions Flexibility to various industries Scalability Primary categories of LLM agents As you can see, all agents work based on large language models, but they can have different purposes, objectives, behavior patterns, and sets of rules. The LLM agents can be divided into two primary categories: LLM agent categories Pinch and spread for zoom Conversational agents . Utilizing natural language processing techniques, conversational agents can mimic various human interactions and engage users in conversations that look closer to human-like. AI-powered agents can maintain meaningful and personalized conversations, or serve as knowledgeable advisors and assistants if they are provided with relevant knowledge databases. Task-oriented agents . These agents are designed to perform specific tasks and goals, fully focused on solving problems and achieving set objectives. Language model capabilities allow the agents to perform prompt analysis, extract parameters, create plans, perform necessary actions, and provide reports about the results. Provided with knowledge bases and specific tools, LLM agents can operate semi-autonomously. Exploring multi-agent systems (MAS) Besides the ability of AI agents to work independently, they can also operate within the same environment, creating multi-agent systems, or MAS. In simple words, this system includes multiple intelligent agents that interact with each other. They can work autonomously as software programs and robotic solutions do, cooperate, or compete with each other to achieve individual or shared goals. MAS consists of agents, an environment where the actions take place, communication mechanisms (protocols, prompts, or languages), and tools for coordination and cooperation. MAS traditionally has the following primary features: Autonomous operation of each agent segment with its control over actions and internal state. Interaction capability that allows agents to communicate, exchange information, and coordinate actions according to communication protocols. Precise environment evaluation allows agents to understand changes in real-time and react to them accordingly. Goal-focused agents can adjust their behavior and take the initiative to achieve their purposes. Absence of a single control point so that resources can be allocated efficiently and the agents can work collaboratively or competitively. Fundamental components of an AI agent Autonomous agents must be able to evaluate the environment, analyze it, develop skills and knowledge, and make autonomous decisions to act and achieve required objectives. Four primary components do all the magic: LLM serves as the core for intelligent agents. It is responsible for machine learning and natural language processing, so the AI model can process information about different subjects, understand it, and perform tasks efficiently. The set of task creation, execution, and proxy functions drives the entire LLM operation. The executive module is responsible for LLM integration with memory and its connection to potentially required external tools. Knowledge base or memory serves as a storage for all data required for agents’ autonomous operation. It is kept safe and can be retrieved at any moment to help with task context understanding (for example, Pinecone and Chroma). Extra tools can be a valuable addition to the basic set of LLM skills. Using extra tools, you can arrange network access, availability of specific databases, or cooperation with other models of artificial intelligence that can be useful for specific tasks. Build innovative solutions Get in touch with our experts to discuss your needs. Contact us AI agent architecture Architecture serves as a ground for efficient AI agent operation, as it defines how an AI agent is going to act in various conditions, how they are going to interact with each other, and the basic rules of behavior. ai agent diagram Pinch and spread for zoom Profile creation module . This module defines the roles of the agents, their functions, purposes, and range of operation capabilities. Memory storage module . This module saves the history of previous interactions, experiences, and results for further learning and improvements. Planning module . These are responsible for the agent’s acting within a dynamic environment, allowing an agent to apply strategy and future planning. Action module . This module provides the transformation of decisions into the desired outcome through the direct effect on the environment. Learning techniques in LLM-based agents Learning techniques directly affect the AI agent evolvement process and further operation efficiency. Based on our experience, we would consider the following techniques as the most reliable ways for a model to learn and improve performance. Examples . LLM agents can use examples as a source of experience and guidance for future action adjustments. An example approach improves the AI agent’s ability to follow instructions, adapt, and perform various types of tasks. Human feedback . Feedback from human operators can serve as a helpful way to adjust agents’ work and make it more oriented toward human users by sharing specific values, requirements, and recommendations. LLM annotations . LLMs are trained in massive amounts of data. They can utilize this knowledge to add labels and annotations to datasets to simplify future AI model training and save costs and resources for humans. Feedback from environment . Agent can learn via environment monitoring, while it studies the environmental states without and with agents’ influence. Exploring the area, interacting, and analyzing results can help the agent determine how to achieve desired goals. The functioning of autonomous AI agents The nature of AI agents may be confusing, but looking through the principles of their operation can help you understand what to expect from interactions. Let’s see a simple plan of an autonomous agent’s action to get a better imagination about its performance and logic. Planning stage . Once the agent receives the instructions from users it starts to analyze how it can achieve the desired goal. Through natural processing algorithms, the agent defines the meaning of the request and creates a detailed plan for its fulfillment. Choice of tool . After the initial preparation of the plan, the AI agent can choose the tools suitable for task fulfillment. AI agent analyzes what kind of resources it needs and what tools can serve it best. For example, for content creation purposes it can choose ChatGPT. Task fulfillment . After the plan and tools are prepared, the AI agent can move on to task fulfillment with the help of selected solutions. For example, if the request was to prepare the text it will provide the ChatGPT with specific instructions for content creation. Success evaluation . After the task is complete, the AI agent compares the results, chosen tools, and initial requirements to the task to see if the outcome completely matches the original goal. If the outcome is correct, the task is done, otherwise, it checks the steps to repeat. Applications of AI agents AI agents’ capabilities help perform tasks, solve problems, mitigate risks, and enhance efficiency across many industries. We would like to review a couple of the most common use cases of AI agents today. AI agents use cases Pinch and spread for zoom Workflow automation Companies are always searching for ways to simplify the workflow for their staff and achieve enhanced productivity. At DICEUS, we believe that automated solutions are the most valuable for industries as they help save a lot of money and resources by letting AI perform routine procedures. Customer support inquiries, information collection, or risk analysis nowadays can be easily delegated to AI-powered agents to fulfill. AI agents can easily be integrated with your existing workflow, improving and speeding it up to a new level. Personal assistance AI agents are often used for customer support purposes, enabling 24/7 assistance for customers with the help of company chatbots and virtual assistants. Furthermore, AI can help customers find required products, guide them through troubleshooting, and help place orders. Besides assisting customers, they can be of great use to your staff, helping to generate emails, check information, manage schedules, and book appointments. Marketing assistance The generative capabilities of AI agents allow them to create high-quality materials for marketing campaigns. Agents can provide market analysis, form valuable insights into user preferences, and offer personalized notifications to attract attention to the products. Analyzing competitors and market sentiments, AI agents can suggest efficient recommendations for future campaigns. It can easily take care of everything from advertising creation to optimization. Development process AI agents offer assistance during software development in the coding, debugging, and training stages. Generating codes for specific tasks can save much time and let developers concentrate on more complex objectives. Automated debugging in real-time mode can help skip a long downtime and move directly to quick detection and error fixing. It can easily indicate places with potential code conflicts, excluding the time-consuming search stage. During training sessions, AI agents can assist, support, and offer personalized guidance and bits of advice. Learn how to build an AI agent Benefits of implementing AI agents AI agents have many powerful capabilities and functions, but the most crucial question is always: “What can AI agents offer to my business?” We have an answer for you, so let’s review the benefits DICEUS considers the most valuable for any industry. Automation of repetitive tasks Prompt data-driven decision making Reduction of human-factor errors Enhanced accuracy in predictions Complex task performance Scalable environments for task fulfillment Personalized recommendations for your customers Round-the-clock availability and monitoring Real-time insights Automated fraud detection systems Reduction of manual work that leads to cost-saving Learning and adaptivity capabilities Boosted efficiency and productivity The future potential of AI agents The evolution of artificial intelligence, specifically AI agents, powers a full-on reinvention of workflow formats across most industries. At DICEUS, we expect AI agents to become more adaptive, sophisticated, and prepared to solve more complex tasks and challenges. They can become reliable support and irreplaceable personal assistants who never tire and manage tasks with cutting-edge precision. Quantum computing development could increase AI’s processing power, further enhancing AI agents’ capabilities in data analysis, problem-solving, and performance. Better reasoning, improved interactions, and perhaps emotional intelligence development will bring the world closer to human-like conversations, content generation, and even better assistance. We consider that society will still have to challenge such fundamental concerns as ethics, data privacy, and security. Still, we also believe that with further development of the AI agents’ sphere, their operation will become more transparent. With explainable decision-making processes and improved security and data protection procedures, AI agents will become the solution to secure the networks even more, enhancing efficiency and trust in digital operations. Learn how DICEUS developed a chatbot for insurance company How DICEUS can assist in integrating AI agents DICEUS’s professional team is always ready to empower your new technological implementations. With in-depth experience in artificial intelligence, projects that involve NLP and LLM , and various automation types, we can offer expert consulting to help you choose the most suitable solution for your business. Even if you are unsure what kind of AI agent you need, we will help you see the potential and prepare a strategy for business improvement. DICEUS can develop custom AI agents tailored to your specific objectives and requirements. Our mission is to find the solution that will help to upgrade your workflow, streamline required processes, and achieve your chosen goals. Applying seamless integration, we will make sure that AI will join your existing system smoothly and efficiently. Conclusion Artificial intelligence and especially AI agents show promising potential for industry transformation, reducing the need for manual labor, streamlining basic processes, and improving overall productivity. From simple tasks, they moved on to complex objectives involving decision-making, content generation, analytics, and advanced language processing. With timely AI agent integration, you can boost your business potential and improve long-term outcomes with the help of advanced technologies. Frequently asked questions What are AI agents, and how do they work? AI agents are software solutions that utilize artificial intelligence to perform various tasks autonomously. They can analyze the environment, apply decision-making, and choose actions to achieve specific, set purposes. With the help of machine learning techniques and natural language processing, AI agents can improve their performance according to received feedback and new data. Making decisions based on received data, they can provide data input, send notifications, analyze datasets, apply commands, or interact with users. How can intelligent AI agents streamline workflows in businesses? AI agents’ optimization capabilities can help streamline workflows in many ways. They can automate repetitive tasks such as data entry, report creation, invoicing, and schedule management. They can easily provide data-powered insights for further decision-making and handle customer requests via chatbots. With precise prediction capabilities, AI agents simplify supply chain management and predict inventory needs. What are the key features and capabilities of LLM-based agents? The LLM-based agents can offer various features, including natural language processing and generation, reasoning, process-solving, and decision-making. Their data entry and summarization capabilities make agents helpful in many basic data processing procedures. A high level of personalization, customization, and adaptivity to various industries raises the chances of businesses in different spheres to find perfect solutions for their goals. What are the primary types of LLM agents and their applications? We can define two primary types of LLM agents: conversational and task-oriented. The first type is oriented on conversational activity and can simulate, understand, and interpret interactions with users, as well as provide required information and guidance. An example of conversation agents is chatbots. The task-oriented type focuses on specific goal performance, problem-solving, and achieving particular goals. For example, coding assistants and customer support agents. What are the benefits of using AI agents in various industries? Each industry can feel the positive impact of AI agents. For example, all of them can experience automated data entry and processing procedures and a reduction of human involvement in routine tasks like repetitive query responses. AI agents can offer solutions for supply chain optimization and ways to reduce downtime via analytic and predictive capabilities. They reduce costs related to human errors and provide smarter resource allocation by distributing the work most efficiently between AI and human agents. Get started Contact us to discuss your project requirements, business goals, and needs. Contact us Table of contents Understanding AI agents Types of AI agents Enhancing efficiency with smart AI agents From LLMs to intelligent agents Core features of LLM-based agents Primary categories of LLM agents Exploring multi-agent systems (MAS) Fundamental components of an AI agent AI agent architecture Learning techniques in LLM-based agents The functioning of autonomous AI agents Applications of AI agents Benefits of implementing AI agents The future potential of AI agents How DICEUS can assist in integrating AI agents Conclusion Frequently asked questions Ready to discuss your project? Let's talk Related articles AI 10 min. read · 28 Aug 2024 21 Nov 2024 AI for data engineering: Use cases and key benefits AI 11 min. read · 21 Oct 2024 17 Feb 2025 AI in financial modeling: Use cases and key benefits AI 10 min. read · 25 Oct 2024 22 Nov 2024 AI for predictive analytics: Use cases and key benefits 15 min. read · 06 May 2025 06 May 2025 ERP integration: Key use cases and benefits Insurance 9 min. read · 23 Jan 2025 24 Sep 2026 Predictive analytics in insurance: Role, benefits and use cases Insurance 9 min. read · 04 Jun 2026 04 Jun 2026 Chatbot for insurance: Key features and use cases 2026 All articles Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman