Teambase human resources management solution Services provided UI/UX design Web app development Mobile app development Custom software development Expertise used BI and reporting Industry Human Resource Software product Project overview The developed tools is an intuitive human resources management system (HRMS) that has a complete set of HR functions and is suitable for SMEs working in any industry. Client TeamBase DMCC Team 12 members Country United Arab Emirates Duration 6 months Client information TeamBase is a consulting and software services company that helps SMEs bring their business to a new level. They provide cloud-based solutions for insurance and HR, retails, and hospitality. Business challenge The customer needed some solutions that could become more than a traditional HR system. They wanted a new system to combine recruiting, onboarding, performance monitoring, payroll, and corporate administration. The final product should modernize and automate all the HR operations within an organization and be universal enough to be implemented for any industry. The system had to store the information in one place for easy access by both HR managers and employees. Technical challenges For security measures, the system had to provide role-based user access for various roles like an HR manager, CEO, Operations Manager, CTO, and others. It also had to be combined with payroll functionality for the maximum usability of the resource. We had to empower the system with document expiry tracker, notifications, and capabilities for automatic organizational chart creation. Solution delivered To meet the customer’s needs, our team developed a robust solution that allows managing employee records, handling onboarding tasks, processing payroll, keeping company documentation in a secure place, and performing a lot of daily HR functions. Data that is accurately structured and stored in one repository ensures high security and quick sharing among company workers. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Employee data management The system offers capabilities to store and manage all the information about company employees in one place. Here, you can collect personal data about each of your employees, for example, emergency contacts, bank details, and other essential information. Employee self-service Self-service allows employees to apply for day-offs and sick leaves as well as to manage travel spendings and other business expenses. This feature simplifies traditional HR processes by empowering employees with a convenient way to manage their time and expenditures. Payroll The system includes a simple payroll calculation function that connects the pay data with deductions and reimbursements automatically. It makes the payroll process transparent and manageable. Corporate administration Companies can store all the critical corporate data in one repository. Papers like corporate mission statements, NDAs, legal agreements, insurance policies will always be up to date since the system is empowered with special reminders for the expiring data. Onboarding Onboarding goes comfortable with a standardized procedure described online. Both newcomers and HR managers can monitor onboarding tasks, progress, and all other information stored in the system. Performance management Track productivity, set goals, schedule regular reviews. Measure and evaluate employee performance right in the HRMS, record results, and keep them for the future review to compare. Reports and analytics HR managers have all the necessary tools to analyze and report on salary, employee demographics, time and attendance, etc. Real-time data ensures the most accurate picture of your organization; you can make data-driven predictions and spot trends for future staff requirements. Shared company calendar Now, everybody is on the same page. A shared calendar allows for getting updates on meetings, events, appointments, holidays, etc. Value to our client Employee satisfaction level increase by 50% Collaboration and self-service capabilities make staff feel more engaged in teamwork, which leads to increased satisfaction with the work environment and communication with colleagues. 3 times less paperwork burden HR specialists can save time on repetitive and manual tasks since the system is entirely automated. The response time reduced, employees can monitor their requests online instead of using paper. One-stop HR management A solution is a one-stop place for all the HR-related tasks and procedures that combine 10+ most critical functions, including payroll and self-service for employees._x0000_ 1-day updates New values were updated in the Golden Source dictionary within 1 day, instead of 1 month. Our tech stack .NET/ASP.NET Angular Microsoft Azure Cloud HTML Bootstrap Telerik Kendo UI Visual Studio Git NUnit Selenium Jira Microsoft Project Client feedback The collaboration has increased by as much as 25% each year, thanks to DICEUS’ technical capabilities and quick feedback adoption. The team’s professionalism, cost-effective rates, and consistent delivery continue to support both the engagement and product end-users. Robert Koval Managing Director, TeamBase DMCC Our other cases Software product Penetration testing services for Wired Quote Project management Cloud-based project management solution Software product ETL process development and data modeling for REsurity Software product IT consulting for Fadata’s insurance platform INSIS implementation Software product INSIS Modernized Claims API development for Fadata Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman