Software for health insurance companies Super App for health insurance Super App is one of the health insurance software solutions developed by DICEUS, which automates customer interaction and engagement with innovative self‑service functionalities for policy purchase, claim submission, symptom checking, and more. Book a demo Health claims Super App supports end‑to‑end health insurance claim submission, from initial notification to payment settlement. The convenience of service is ensured by advanced functionalities that can be integrated into the health claims workflow within the mobile app: Learn more about each functionality below. Self‑service symptom checker (Avatar) Scheduling appointments with doctors Scheduling appointments for lab tests Map showing clinic locations Submitting claims for reimbursement Submitting claim reports Telemedicine Medicine delivery Remote physical exams with smart clinic solutions Self‑service symptom checker (Avatar) Avatar is a tool that assists policyholders in understanding the potential causes of their symptoms and guides them to the appropriate next steps. Users input symptoms by selecting them from a list of body avatars. The system, empowered by Natural Language Processing, understands the inputs and correlates them with the database of symptoms and diagnoses associated with these symptoms. Based on that, the system recommends a doctor specializing in treating diseases determined by the system as possible. This functionality helps decrease the cost of claims as the insurance company can arrange an appointment with a particular doctor, skipping the appointment with a therapist. Scheduling appointments with doctors This feature allows policyholders to make appointments with doctors through a mobile app. Users can choose an appointment type (in‑person consultation or telemedicine), select the desired location, date and time, apply for sick leave, if needed. Once the appointment is scheduled, the user gets an appointment confirmation with details. Scheduling appointments for lab tests Arranging lab test visits streamlines the healthcare experience, improving customer satisfaction with insurance company services. Users can search for specific tests and nearby labs based on their current location or lists recommended by the insurance company. Map showing clinic locations By sharing geolocation, users see a map showing the locations of nearby clinics. The insurance company can manage the list view to optimize the selection and offer policyholders the clinics that the insurer wants them to see first in the list. So, policyholders can choose a clinic out of familiar locations or those recommended by the insurance company. Submitting claims for reimbursement When policyholders visit doctors independently, without a prior insurer's authorization, they can submit a claim for reimbursement through Super App. They need to provide supporting documents, such as invoices, receipts, and doctors' prescriptions, and fill in the required details. Users should also enter their bank card details to request reimbursement. If the claim is confirmed, users will see whether their refund is full or partial. Submitting claim reports A claim report is a conclusion the user can provide to the insurance company after a visit to the doctor. It contains all information about doctors' appointments, including the doctor's name, clinic name, date and time, diagnosis, and prescribed medicines. Telemedicine Policyholders can connect with doctors online instantly and get consultations, treatment plans, prescriptions, or referrals for additional exams. For this functionality, our software solution for health insurance, can be integrated with the insurer's current telemedicine provider or another ready‑made solution. Telemedicine reduces the need for in‑person visits, decreases the cost of claims, and enhances customer loyalty. Medicine delivery Users can order medicine in the application. The list of available medicines, according to the coverage plan, is displayed in the app. Users should choose the location where they would like to pick up the medicines or order delivery. Remote physical exams with smart clinic solutions By integrating a mobile app with portable devices for patient examination, the insurance company will be able to provide medical examinations by clinical staff online, regardless of where the insured is and what illness he/she has - acute or chronic. Such examinations may include listening to heart and lung sounds, examining the ear, throat, measuring blood pressure, blood oxygen level, and other parameters. Preventive medicine and prophylaxis By seamlessly synchronizing with iOS or Android Health Apps, Apple Watch, or any fitness trackers, users can monitor daily physical activity and progress towards their goals. They can also engage in challenges and health improvement programs, explore health libraries, and earn rewards by accumulating points and achieving goals. Incorporating preventive medicine creates a win-win scenario, where policyholders gain better health outcomes, and insurers benefit from optimized costs and stronger customer relationships. Chatbot Our Chatbot is an LLM‑powered software solution for health insurance that understands context, recognizes voice and written messages. It allows clients to instantly get assistance, buy a policy, and file a claim. Besides, the chatbot can communicate in multiple languages simultaneously. Super App can be customized according to your needs, requirements, and company’s branding Request a demo Store Super App offers a store functionality that allows policyholders to purchase additional insurance products, such as health insurance for family members, life insurance, car insurance, and home insurance, among others. This feature enhances customer convenience by providing a seamless and user‑friendly experience, enabling policyholders to explore and purchase tailored coverage options directly from their mobile devices, thereby fostering cross‑selling opportunities and boosting customer engagement. Policy details "My policies" is a central hub for users to view, manage, and update their insurance policies. View active policies, coverage details, and renewal dates View inactive policies View policies for relatives (children, spouses) Add policies to a digital card wallet Policy updates (e.g., change of coverage) Download policy documents (e.g., PDF copies) Policy renewal and purchase options Premium due date notifications and reminders Payment plan options (monthly, quarterly, yearly) Notifications Notifications are applicable to any insurance business line and can be configured according to the insurance company's workflows. This feature covers all types of notifications, including status updates, push notifications, alerts, reminders, news, offers, due dates, and more. Authorization The user signs in using a standard password and a one‑time password (OTP). Two‑factor authentication is a secure way to log in, protecting accounts from all cyberattacks. Biometric login Super App supports code and biometric identification for login, such as Touch/Face ID. User profile Policyholders can view and modify their personal information (name, date of birth, phone number, and email). Integrations Super App can be integrated with any customer's IT system: core insurance systems, payment gateways, open data portals, CRM systems, and others. Also, integration with IoT devices like healthcare wearables is available. NPS, engagement surveys, and loyalty programs Super App allows insurers to collect the NPS (Net Promoter Score) metric by periodically sending a standard NPS survey to customers in the app and analyzing customer satisfaction with insurance products and services. Personalized surveys can be created by the insurance company and sent to the customer directly in a mobile app. Policyholders can share their feedback on social media platforms and refer the insurance company to their friends. For that, they receive special bonuses – such as discounts on policy renewals, for example. Payment reminders Payment reminders notify policyholders of upcoming premium due dates. They can be integrated in different ways: push or pop‑up notifications, in‑app reminders, or banner alerts. For example, users may see notifications about due dates while viewing policy details. For insurance companies, this functionality improves operational efficiency associated with policy renewals, timely payments, and customer retention. Event‑triggered proposals Event‑triggered proposals are driven by backend logic that captures specific user events (location, app activity, transaction history, etc.). Depending on the event, policyholders get relevant, context‑related proposals in real time. Insurers can create predefined business rules in the backend to effectively process events. Proposals delivered at the right moment increase the likelihood that policyholders will buy additional insurance products. Security The security of Super App is ensured by authentication and authorization mechanisms like biometrics and two‑factor authentication. Regular vulnerability assessments and penetration testing help identify and address potential threats. Additionally, secure app development frameworks and adherence to platform‑specific guidelines (like Apple's App Store Review Guidelines or Google Play's Developer Policy) further reinforce security, ensuring apps meet industry standards. Multilingual support This feature allows policyholders to interact with the app in their preferred language. Users are able to select their language in settings and the app will adjust the content accordingly. So, insurance companies can cater to the needs of diverse audiences if this is required by the company’s business goals. Find the right solution for your needs Talk to our expert Diana Mircheva Product Owner at DICEUS Benefits of our Super App Readymade mobile app solutions for insurance businesses can automate key insurance operations for both insurers and policyholders. For insurance companies Reduced costs on customer support Decreased costs of claims Increased revenue Improved CX and increased customer satisfaction Reduced paperwork and eliminated manual jobs Automated key processes For customers of insurance companies 24/7 customer support Access to self-service features like appointment scheduling Online claim submission Online quote generation and policy purchase Personalized offerings and recommendations Pricing model The pricing components include three components: licenses (base fee, module‑specific fee), support, and implementation. A customization option is available and is calculated separately. It consists of a discovery phase and customization itself. Base Fee License paid yearly A fixed fee that covers general access to the platform and all core features that come with all modules Authorization Biometric login User profile Store Notifications Security Policy details Module‑specific Fee paid yearly Additional fees for each module that the insurance company activates Health insurance module Investment and life insurance module Car insurance module Travel insurance module Chatbot Support paid yearly Includes fee for technical support and functionality extension CET time zone support hours Response time depends on the incident severity and support package purchased Communication channels: chat, email, remote sessions Consultations on functionality Notifications of new releases and critical security updates Regular updates and bug fixes Infrastructure maintenance Customization Discovery phase: Business and functional requirements Non‑functional requirements Integration points and data flows Configuration and customization scope Product customization Mobile app customized according to requirements for two platforms, iOS and Android, tested and published in App Store and Google Play Market Need other software for health insurance? We'll be glad to present our other ready‑made solutions for insurance. Contact us FAQ What other health insurance software systems does DICEUS offer? DICEUS offers a comprehensive range of ready‑made software solutions for health insurance companies, including the AI‑Powered Underwriting Workbench, Policy Administration System, Group Insurance Management Platform, Customer Web Portal, Broker Portal, and Chatbot. All these solutions can be seamlessly integrated into your existing IT landscape. For more information, book an introductory call to get familiar with all the capabilities our software provides. Why are readymade mobile app solutions better than custom‑built applications? With our extensive experience in building custom solutions for the insurance industry, we have found that most customer‑facing apps share commonalities: features that cover key workflows, but are specific to a particular business line. Based on our experience, we have developed a customer‑facing mobile app called Super App, tailored to each insurance business line. Thanks to its modular architecture, our solution can be implemented according to the insurer's requirements, with as many modules (health, life, unit‑linked, car, travel, etc.) as needed. There is no need to develop a separate solution — our Super App has all basic modules plus innovative functionalities that will help your company gain a competitive advantage. Our team follows best practices and the latest digital trends in the industry to add more valuable features to the app. What are the challenges Super App solves? Firstly, by enabling digital claim submission, policy purchases, renewals, and self‑service capabilities, insurers can reduce paperwork and the workload in their call centers. With optimized operations, insurers will require fewer resources and lower costs to acquire and retain clients, manage claims, and deliver customer support. Secondly, the app provides cross‑selling and upselling opportunities. For example, in the Store, customers can browse for and choose to buy other insurance products and services provided by the company. Another example is event‑triggered proposals, which notify policyholders of relevant, context‑related offers in real‑time. Such proposals, delivered at the right moment, increase the likelihood that policyholders will buy additional insurance products. Thirdly, Super App offers 24/7 access, faster claims processing, personalized proposals, easy payment, and access to self‑services through a mobile app to enhance customer loyalty. Features like push notifications, payment reminders, and payment pauses improve CX. Other ready-made software products Data Warehouse for Insurance Alternative Risk Platform Captive Owner Portal Group Insurance Management Platform Risk Retention Group Management Platform Policy Administration System Platform for captives and captive managers Insurance General Ledger Platform Group Insurance Management Platform for Life & Pensions AI-Powered Chatbot Super App Customer Web Portal AI-Powered Underwriting Platform for Life Insurance Reinsurance Platform​ Broker Portal Underwriting Workbench for Health Insurance AI-Powered Underwriting Workbench Group Health Insurance Management Platform Captive Management Platform All solutions Request a demo 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman