Social networking solution enhancement for Connector.org Services provided Software architecture UI/UX design Web app development Mobile app development Custom software development Manual testing Expertise used Cloud solutions Big data Industry Social media Project overview Conveniently accumulating a vast network of professional contacts is a must effort for any existing business nowadays. To get those potential employees, contractors, and partners, entrepreneurs, companies use specialized social networking platforms. And providers like our client use new extensive types of such platforms. Particularly, Connector.org hired us to expand their existing professional networking web application with e-learning features and capabilities. Client Connector.org Team 3 members Country United States of America Duration 2 years Client information Connector.org is a US-based provider of the eponymous professional networking web app with an established community and offers wide social functionality. The company mainly focuses on building up its platform and expanding in order to give users a multipurpose networking portal where they could not only communicate with other market players and acquire connections but also employ various related opportunities. E-learning to be among them. Business challenge Profiled online education is a highly demanded resource among mass users nowadays. We set out to add educational functionality to the existing Connector.org social platform. This ultimately enables business learners to find work and connect with potential employers in one place, right upon gathering enough knowledge on the working subject. Technical challenges We needed to develop e-learning software features that would allow platform users to provide course curriculums and educational materials (including readings, videos, assignments, evaluation criteria, etc.) for online training in a free field of specialties. Another focus was also to implement interactive microblogging for learners and course leaders in terms of the new e-learning functionality. We inherited the baseline software’s source code to elaborate upon, PSD files for different views, and build and deployment instructions from the previous team working on the main Connector.org project. Solution delivered We developed e-learning software functionality that offers respective capabilities for different user roles – curriculum owners (those who create curriculums), providers (those who offer readymade curriculums to the Connector.org community), leaders (those leading training courses), instructors (those providing live or recorded training sessions), learners (those taking courses), and team leaders (those leasing small groups of other learners). Each type of user gets the respective capabilities and interface elements to logically contribute to the organization of the overall educational process. Let’s discuss how we can help with your project Send request Key features Simple interface The new e-learning interface is ultimately easy to handle, with simple lists of courses and comprehensive interaction elements. Media uploading Curriculum creators and editors can freely upload media files of the most diverse formats, including PDF files, videos, tables, and so on. Flexible education Different curriculum owners, providers, and leaders decide the structure and contents of every other course individually. Web functionality Available online, the Connector.org web app is a highly accessible solution that can be easily launched on any device. Value to our client Cloud reliability Powered by the cloud-based server, the Connector.org interface is failproof and available at a low-speed web connection. Strong security The employment of Windows Identify Foundation and cloud capabilities enable a high level of data security. Customizations Every other created training course can be customized to the course creator’s heart’s content. Our tech stack C# Microsoft Visual Studio Express 2013 for Web Microsoft MVC5 Razor LINQ Azure Table Storage Azure Blob Storage (Block Storage Type) Windows Identify Foundation (WIF) Our other cases Social media Business networking social platform Insurance Web-based lead generation platform for insurance brokers Compliance Digital Fingerprint Tool for Lapin International Compliance VELA – Next-generation compliance and risk management system Banking Data governance project for a bank Software solutions bringing business values 5/5 6 reviews 4.9/5 49 reviews USA (Headquarters) +19293091005 2810 N Church St, Ste 94987, Wilmington, Delaware 19802-4447 Denmark +4566339213 Copenhagen, 2900 Hellerup, Tuborg Havnepark 7 Poland +48573568229 ul. Księcia Witolda, nr 49, lok. 15, 50-202 Wrocław Lithuania +37069198546 Vilnius, LT-09308, Konstitucijos ave.7 6th floor Faroe Islands +298201515 Smærugøta 9A, FO-100 Tórshavn, Faroe Islands Austria +4366475535405 Handelskai 92 - Rivergate - 1200, Vienna UAE +4366475535405 Emarat Atrium, 423 Al Wasl Area, Dubai, P.O. Box 112344 Jordan +962787500100 Swafeya, Waklat St. 2, Office 302, Amman